Manuscript
Autonomous scanning electrochemical cell microscopy enables rapid
exploration of large compositionally complex material spaces
Felix Thelen1‡, Moonjoo Kim2‡, Geovane Arruda de Oliveira2, Jan Lukas Bürgel1, Wolfgang
Schuhmann2,*, Alfred Ludwig1,*
1Chair for Materials Discovery and Interfaces, Institute for Materials, Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, Ruhr
University Bochum, Universitätsstraße 150, 44801 Bochum, Germany
2Analytical Chemistry - Center for Electrochemical Sciences (CES), Faculty of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Ruhr
University Bochum, Universitätsstraße 150, 44801 Bochum, Germany
‡These authors contributed equally.
*corresponding authors: alfred.ludwig@rub.de; wolfgang.schuhmann@rub.de
Keywords: autonomous experiments, scanning electrochemical cell microscopy (SECCM), compositionally
complex solid solution (CCSS), multi-metal electrocatalyst, high-throughput electrochemistry, active learning, multi-
output Gaussian process, hydrogen evolution reaction
Abstract
Alloying is a central strategy in electrocatalysis, enabling fine-tuning of electronic structure. In
particular, compositionally complex solid solutions (CCSS) often called high-entropy alloys are
of high interest as they allow active site design. However, the “combinatorial explosion” in the
number of possible compositions poses a critical bottleneck for the discovery of active CCSS
electrocatalysts. We present an autonomous scanning electrochemical cell microscopy
(SECCM) system for ultrahigh-throughput and large-scale CCSS activity screening. The
platform rapidly establishes composition–electrocatalytic activity relationships for large
compositional spaces across multiple thin-film CCSS materials libraries via active learning and
automated library exchange. Embedding analytical expressions of voltammetry in the
algorithm enables the learning of whole voltammograms rather than a single selected metric.
As a demonstration, we investigated hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) activities of Au–Ir–
Rh, where Ir and Rh exhibit strong metal-hydrogen binding and Au exhibits relatively weak
binding as derived from the HER volcano plot. The composition-activity trend was accurately
predicted after measuring only 15% of all 966 measurement areas. Au Ir Rh and
30 20 50
Au Ir Rh exhibit highest activities with standard rate constants of ~0.012 cm s–1,
10 35 55
demonstrating positive synergistic contributions from elemental mixing. The autonomous
robotic SECCM platform is broadly applicable to a wide range of electrocatalytic reactions,
providing a general pathway for accelerating CCSS electrocatalyst discovery and optimization.
1. Introduction
Compositionally complex solid solutions (CCSS) allow for finely tuning the electronic structure
of active catalytic sites, thereby enabling quasi-continuous adjustments in the binding strength
of adsorbates [1]. This tunability positions CCSS as a promising platform for developing high-
activity electrocatalysts. However, the enormous design space for CCSS electrocatalysts
poses a fundamental challenge for experimental exploration [2,3]. When considering a
1

resolution of 5 at.%, a quaternary system already contains 1771 possible compositions, while
a quinary system expands to 10.626 compositions.
Combinatorial thin-film synthesis techniques, such as magnetron sputtering, can address this
challenge by enabling rapid fabrication (within hours) of thousands of CCSS electrocatalysts
in the form of well-defined compositional gradients, so-called thin-film materials libraries. By
pairing this synthesis with high-throughput characterization methods that allow automated
measurement of hundreds of compositions during several hours, this combinatorial approach
significantly improves efficiency compared to serial, one-at-a-time experiments [4,5]. Energy-
dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) for compositional analysis, X-ray diffraction (XRD) for
phase identification, and functional property characterization can all be completed in just over
two days per materials library containing 342 measurement areas, which each refer to an
investigated composition [6].
Thin-film CCSS materials libraries provide a well-controlled platform for assessing
composition-dependent intrinsic electrocatalytic activity. The uniform morphology on a library
minimizes extrinsic contributions which could arise from variations in particle size and shape
that are commonly encountered in nanoparticle systems. The planar geometry also simplifies
interfacial mass transport, facilitating the accurate evaluation of electrocatalytic reaction
kinetics. Combining materials libraries with high-throughput electrochemical characterization
techniques such as scanning droplet cell (SDC) and long-range scanning electrochemical cell
microscopy (SECCM) has brought substantial progress in CCSS electrocatalyst discovery.
The SDC enabled automated electrochemical screening of materials libraries on timescales
of days [7]. Long-range (e.g., across 100 mm diameter materials libraries) SECCM advanced
this approach by using nanoscale capillaries rather than a droplet cell geometry, resulting in
improved data quality, industrially relevant current densities, and the possibility of subsequent
characterization due to its minimal surface footprint, all while maintaining a comparable
measurement throughput [8]. This integrated multimodal high-throughput characterization
workflow has accelerated the discovery of high-activity CCSS electrocatalysts and helped
investigating composition-structure-activity relationships of CCSS [9,10].
Despite these advances, systemically exploring the full compositional landscape of CCSS
electrocatalysts is still exceptionally challenging. A single materials library fabricated by
magnetron co-sputtering in the center of a ternary composition space covers approximately
20% of the composition space, a single library in a quaternary composition space 5%, while a
single library in the quinary space covers less than 1% [6]. Consequently, identifying new
electrocatalysts in compositionally complex materials requires the fabrication and
characterization of numerous libraries.
Recent advances in algorithm-guided experimental design have demonstrated that Bayesian
optimization and active learning can dramatically reduce the number of experiments required
to navigate high-dimensional composition spaces. In electrocatalysis, experimental Bayesian
optimization has been applied to identify active compositions in compositionally complex
materials, including both thin-film libraries and nanoparticle catalysts [11,12]. Beyond
electrocatalysis, autonomous experimentation has advanced rapidly across the broader
chemical sciences. Mobile robotic platforms and self-driving laboratories in combination with
Bayesian optimization allow autonomous experiments [13–16]. However, most approaches
operate on sequentially synthesized individual samples, limiting their scalability compared to
combinatorial thin-film libraries. Furthermore, electrochemical performance is typically
2

assessed through single metrics extracted at fixed potentials, discarding the wealth of kinetic
information encoded in the full voltammetric response.
Here, we present an autonomous robotic long-range SECCM platform that can rapidly learn
composition-dependent electrocatalytic activities of CCSS systems. A robot arm-assisted
automated exchange of the materials libraries is integrated with long-range SECCM: Instead
of sequentially screening the electrocatalytic activities of each prepared materials library, the
new system can seamlessly traverse multiple materials libraries in a single operation. The
Gaussian process-based active learning algorithm guides the platform in dynamically
selecting and measuring the electrocatalytic behavior of an informative CCSS composition,
reducing the number of data points required to determine the composition–activity trend of the
system. We integrated multi-output Gaussian process regression with the analytical
expression of voltammetry for the SECCM measurements so that the platform can “learn” the
linear sweep voltammogram (LSV) for HER and quantitatively extract kinetics descriptors from
the measurements. Correcting for the mass transport factor allows for a more accurate
assessment of electrocatalytic activities than relying on single-metric evaluations such as
current density. As a demonstration, we used the ternary system Au–Ir–Ru as a representative
model. Its elements were chosen based on the hypothesis that synergy may arise from pairing
metals with stronger M–H binding strength than the optimum value (Ir and Rh) with a metal
exhibiting weaker M–H binding strength (Au).
2. Results and Discussion
2.1. Design of the robotic SECCM for autonomous electrochemical screening
The design of the long-range robotic SECCM platform is shown in Figure 1. The platform
consists of a long-range SECCM [8] for performing electrochemical measurements across the
materials libraries (Figure 1a) and a cassette for storing the CCSS materials libraries
(Figure 1b). A six-axis robotic arm enables the automated transfer of materials libraries
between the storage cassette and the SECCM, allowing automated measurements across of
(currently) up to ten libraries without human intervention. The materials libraries are mounted
on custom-designed sample holders to be securely handled by the robotic arm. To ensure
accurate positioning and electrical contact, the sample holders and table are designed with
chamfered edges automatically aligning the sample holders upon placement of the robot.
Gold-plated pins and fixation screws ensure electrical contact to ground. The entire system is
placed inside a grounded Faraday cage to minimize noise, i.e. increase the signal to noise
ratio. The SECCM capillary, which contains an electrolyte and a reference-counter electrode,
forms a sub-microscale electrochemical cell. The tip of the capillary is located inside a 3D-
printed environmental chamber which provides a continuous humidified Ar-atmosphere
around the capillary tip, which allows investigating HER without interference from the oxygen
reduction reaction (ORR). The environmental chamber is automatically positioned above the
sample based on the feedback of a force sensor and remains at a distance of 0.1 mm to the
sample’s surface at all times. The capillary is approached to the surface in an automated way
as well. By detecting and observing the capillary tip and its reflection in the live feed of a
microscopy camera with computer vision techniques, the capillary is positioned 100 µm above
the sample. The fine approach to the nanometer level is subsequently performed with a piezo
actuator. A detailed description about the instrument’s components is provided in Section 1.6
of the Supporting Information (Figures S1–S5)
3

Figure 1: Components of the robotic SECCM. The device consists of an SECCM illustrated in (a), and
the cassette setup for 10 libraries in (b), connected through a six-axis robot to enable cross-library
screening. The SECCM consists of a capillary surrounded by a 3D-printed environmental chamber
enabling a localized humidified Ar-atmosphere around the tip. By taking the feedback of a force sensor
attached to the chamber and a visual representation of the tip and its reflection through a microscope
camera into account, the device performs an automated approach of the tip to the surface of the
materials library. Upon placement of the robotic arm, an alignment and contact mechanism built into
the sample table and holder enables accurate positioning. For a detailed description of the instrument
setup and the control software see Section 1.6 of the Supporting Information and Figures S1–S5.
The workflow of active learning for autonomous SECCM measurements is summarized in
Figure 2. Following the robotic arm's automated library loading, the system performs tilt
correction and surface approach procedures before initiating electrochemical measurements.
Each newly acquired linear sweep voltammogram (LSV) is fitted with an analytical equation
based on Butler-Volmer kinetics under steady-state mass transport [17] to decouple the
individual electrochemical kinetics descriptors, namely the standard rate constant (𝑘!) and the
transfer coefficient (𝛼), from mass transfer effects. The current density reflects both
electrochemical activity and mass transport effects [18]. Although often overlooked in high-
throughput electrochemical screening, material-dependent variations in mass transport,
arising from factors such as real surface area [19] and electrode morphology [20], should be
corrected for accurate electrocatalytic activity evaluation. In SECCM, the droplet cell wetting
area can depend on the compositional-dependent wettability of the investigated material,
leading to variations in mass transport (Figure S6) [21]. These kinetics descriptors are used
as output training data for a multi-output Gaussian process, functioning as the surrogate model
in an active learning campaign. This allows learning and predicting the HER LSV shape of
each measured material, instead of operating on single scalar values obtained from the LSVs
like current densities at a fixed potential, which was the prior state of the art. The volume
compositions of all measurement areas acquired by EDX are used as input training data. By
combining predicted model uncertainty with estimated measurement time for each area, the
algorithm autonomously selects the next measurement area and determines when to transition
between libraries. After reaching a predefined stopping criterion or receiving user input to halt
(“human-in-the-loop”), the system can predict LSVs for unmeasured compositions using the
4

trained Gaussian process model and the analytical LSV equation. This approach is highly
scalable, with 10 cassette slots currently implemented and straightforward expansion is
possible through hardware additions.
Figure 2: Measurement workflow of the autonomous SECCM platform. The system contains a robotic
arm that autonomously transfers materials libraries between a storage cassette and the SECCM.
Following automated tilt correction and surface approach, the platform records LSVs across a library.
Each LSV is fitted with an analytical function to extract physically interpretable descriptors, which are
used to train a multi-output Gaussian process model within a cost-aware active learning framework.
The trained model predicts the electrochemical behavior for unmeasured compositions and
autonomously guides exploration of the composition space by selecting subsequent measurement
areas and determining optimal timing for library transitions.
2.2. Compositional and structural characterization of Au–Ir–Rh
Whereas the autonomous SECCM is applicable to materials libraries with arbitrary
compositional complexity, we demonstrate the performance of the autonomous robotic
SECCM on three materials libraries fabricated in the ternary composition space Au–Ir–Rh.
This system includes constituent elements from both sides of the acidic HER volcano plot: Ir
and Rh bind hydrogen intermediates too strongly, while Au binds them too weakly [22]. A
ternary system was chosen over higher-order ones to simplify visualization and interpretation
of composition–activity relationships. Three Au–Ir–Rh libraries were fabricated by magnetron
co-sputtering covering 63% of the overall ternary composition space. Details of the thin-film
synthesis are provided in the Supporting Information.
5

Figure 3: Characterization of the three Au–Ir–Rh thin-film materials libraries. (a) The 342-measurement
area grid used for all characterization techniques. 20 areas are excluded from electrochemical
measurement to avoid collisions between the environmental chamber and the sample fixation screws;
(b) Composition spreads of the three libraries plotted in the ternary composition space acquired by EDX.
(c) Predicted surface compositions based on 39 local XPS measurements on the three libraries. Surface
and volume compositions are in close agreement, indicating that the EDX composition can be used as
a proxy for the surface compositions in active learning driven SECCM measurements. (d) XRD peak
shift of the most prominent (111) reflection over the composition space. The continuous peak shift
across the libraries confirms the presence of a compositionally complex solid solution in all
measurement areas. An extended analysis of the EDX, XPS and XRD results is provided in the Sections
2.1–2.3 in the Supporting Information.
A 342-measurement area grid was used for all characterization techniques as shown in
Figure 3a. Due to the geometry of the sample mounting and the footprint of the environmental
chamber, 20 measurement areas were excluded from electrochemical characterization to
avoid collisions during lateral translation. Figure 3b shows the volume composition spreads of
the three libraries determined by EDX projected onto the ternary composition space. Each
library is enriched in one of the three elements, and — as part of our experimental strategy —
partial compositional overlaps exist between the Ir-rich and Rh-rich libraries as well as
between the Ir-rich and Au-rich libraries, providing regions for cross-validation of the observed
property trends. As the probing depth of EDX extends into the micrometer range, the
measured compositions represent volume rather than surface compositions. For each library,
13 complementary, evenly distributed XPS measurements were performed to assess the
validity of using the XPS values as a proxy for the surface composition, as the electrocatalytic
reactions take place at the surface. Using multi-output Gaussian process prediction [23], the
39 local XPS measurements were extended to the full measurement grid (1026 measurement
areas), and the resulting surface compositions are shown together with the volume
compositions in Figure 3c. The surface and volume compositions are in close agreement, with
a mean Euclidean distance of 4.2 at.%. Additionally, native Rh-oxide and Rh-hydroxide peaks
were identified in the XPS spectra at >30 at.% Rh-content, with a native Rh-oxide content of
up to 20 at.% and a native Rh-hydroxide content of up to 8 at.%. A detailed analysis of the
surface composition distributions is provided in the Section 2.2 of the Supporting Information.
To confirm that the observed activity distributions can be attributed to compositional trends
and not to possible variations of the phase constitution, X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements
were performed. XRD confirmed a single-phase solid solution across the full compositional
range of all three libraries. Figure 3d shows the peak shift of the most prominent XRD reflection
around 40° 2θ over the composition space, which was assigned to the (111) reflection of an
fcc lattice. The peak shift smoothly extends over all three libraries in accordance with lattice
parameter differences of elemental Au, Ir and Rh. In addition, the thin-film morphology was
6

assessed with 15 localized atomic force microscopy (AFM) measurements spread across the
explored composition space as a proxy for the electrochemical surface area. The extracted
arithmetic mean roughness ranges from 0.7 to 1.6 nm, confirming that the films are smooth at
the nanoscale and that absolute differences in surface area between the compositions are
small. A detailed XRD and AFM analysis is provided in the Supporting Information
Sections 2.3 and 2.4, respectively.
2.3. High-throughput measurement of HER activity in Au–Ir–Rh
Figure 4a shows the LSVs acquired during the autonomous measurement of all three libraries.
In total 966 measurement areas were characterized without manual intervention, using a
capillary with an opening diameter of 510 nm. The total measurement duration was ~26 h.
Details of the measurement parameters are provided in the Section 1.6–1.7 of the Supporting
Information. The LSVs show a key advantage of SECCM over other high-throughput
electrochemical techniques: the small confinement of the electrochemical cell enables
industrially relevant current densities of several A cm-2, and the LSVs show a well-defined
spherical diffusion-limited plateau current. Additionally, the low noise levels across all
measurements are a prerequisite for the analytical fitting of the LSVs.
Figure 4: (a) Measured LSVs from all measurement areas of the three materials libraries. Distributions
of the LSV-fitted parameters across the Au–Ir–Rh composition space: (b) limiting current density (𝑖 ),
!"#
(c) standard rate constant 𝑘$, and (d) transfer coefficient 𝛼 for all 966 measurement areas across the
three libraries. The smooth variation of all three parameters across library boundaries confirms
consistency of the measurements. The limiting current density increases gradually with Au content and
is the lowest at Rh-rich compositions. The standard rate constant shows a strongly non-linear
compositional dependence, with a global maximum in the interior of the Rh-rich library that decreases
toward all three binary edges and reaches its minimum at Au-rich compositions. The transfer coefficient
varies more modestly, peaking at the highest Rh contents and decreasing toward Ir- and Au-rich
regions.
The results of LSV fitting are shown in Figure 4, which projects the limiting current density 𝑖
"#$
(b), 𝑘! (c), and 𝛼 (d) onto the composition space. All three parameters vary smoothly and
continuously both within and across library boundaries, with no discontinuities at the
compositional overlaps between the Ir-rich, Rh-rich, and Au-rich libraries. This is related to the
inherent nature of CCSS electrocatalysts, where the distribution of various surface atom
arrangements or active sites in CCSS changes continuously as the composition varies [1].
The limiting current density, which is directly proportional to the mass transfer coefficient of
the SECCM electrochemical cells, varies by up to 2.2 A cm-2 across the full dataset, increases
gradually with Au content and is lowest in Rh-rich regions. It shows local variations within
7

individual libraries, most prominently in the Rh-rich library. Observing the limiting current over
the number of measurements (Figure S21) reveals a dependence of the limiting current on
library transfers. During each transfer, the capillary is briefly (4 min) removed from the
controlled humidified Ar-atmosphere of the environmental chamber for repositioning and tilt
correction. Changes of the electrolyte meniscus during this interval likely alter the effective
wetted contact area before the next approach, thereby shifting the limiting current. In between
transfers, the limiting current stays rather constant and only shifts minimally in dependence of
the CCSS compositions. These measurement-order effects of the limiting current can also be
observed in the distributions of 𝑘! and 𝛼 (Figure 4b,c), however, to a much smaller extent. 𝑘!
spans several orders of magnitude across the composition space, in line with preliminary
experiments using other materials libraries. Its global maximum is located in the center of the
Rh-rich library and decreases towards all three binary edges, reaching its lowest values at Au-
rich compositions. This non-monotonic behavior suggests that the optimal kinetic performance
for the HER in this system arises from synergistic alloying effects rather than from any single
constituent element. In comparison, the transfer coefficient shows comparatively modest
variation across the composition space: it is the highest at Rh-rich compositions and
decreases gradually toward Ir- and Au-rich regions, with the minimum found in the Au-Ir-rich
edge.
2.4. Noise-aware Gaussian process model for active learning of the HER activity
The active learning performance of the initial implementation was evaluated retrospectively
against the ground truth of all 966 measurements. While the model captures the global
compositional trends in both 𝑘! and 𝛼 from early in the measurement campaign, an analysis
reveals that the model overfits 𝑘! in the later stages of the campaign, with the normalized
mean absolute error (MAE) approaching 0% while that of 𝛼 stabilizes at ~5%. This overfitting
is a consequence of the logarithmic transformation applied to 𝑘!: by compressing nearly two
orders of magnitude in linear space to a span of ~4 in log-space, the transformation reduces
the replicate variance relative to the signal range, causing the Gaussian process noise
parameter to converge to an artificially small value. A further contributing factor is the order in
which averaging and log-transformation were applied — three LSVs were averaged per
measurement area before log-transforming 𝑘!, an operation which does not preserve the
variance in log-space. As a result, the model misinterprets local fluctuations arising from the
measurement noise and drift as genuine compositional features. The full analysis and
evolution of the model predictions in this measurement campaign are provided in Section 2.6
in the Supporting Information.
To address the overfitting, the model was extended to incorporate the per-point measurement
variance directly into the Gaussian likelihood. Rather than learning a single, shared noise
parameter across all training points — as done in the first version of the algorithm — the
updated likelihood accepts a fixed variance for each observation. This variance is obtained by
fitting each of the three LSVs per measurement area separately with the analytical model, log-
transforming the resulting 𝑘! values and computing the mean and variance in log-space. This
ordering preserves the statistical meaning of the variance in the space in which the Gaussian
process operates. As a result, areas with consistent measurement results constrain the
predictions more tightly, while areas with higher noise are fitted more loosely.
8

Figure 6: Active learning performance and predictions of the model with integrated per-point variance
at iteration 140 (blue vertical line). (a) MAE prediction errors of 𝑘$ and 𝛼 for the noise aware model
normalized to their specific ranges, (b) predicted 𝑘$ distribution, (c) the predicted 𝛼 distribution on the
ternary composition space. Compared to the predictions of the original model (Figure S22d,e), the
updated predictions show a smoother trend.
Since the modified likelihood alters the predictive variance and thereby the acquisition
function, the active learning campaign was re-executed retrospectively on the existing dataset.
Figure 6a shows the prediction MAE of the noise-aware model over the number of iterations.
𝑘! converges to a MAE of ~3%, and 𝛼 to ~5%. For 𝑘!, the largest improvement in predictive
accuracy occurs within the first 100 iterations, where the MAE drops from 21% to 5%, after
which the curve plateaus at 140 iterations and continues with only marginal further
improvement. In contrast, the MAE of 𝛼 starts lower at 13% and reaches its plateau around
5% after 60–100 iterations. Figure 6b,c show the predicted composition-activity maps for 𝑘!
and 𝛼 at iteration 140. Corresponding predictions at earlier and later iterations are provided in
the Supporting Information Figure S23. Early iterations are dominated by prior uncertainty,
while later iterations converge to visually indistinguishable maps. Compared to the predictions
from the original model in Figure S22d,e, the updated predictions exhibit visibly smoother
composition-dependent trends, most notably for 𝑘! and to a lesser extent for 𝛼.
Judging from the MAE of 𝑘!, the autonomous measurement could be stopped after
approximately 100–140 iterations with minimal loss in accuracy. The MAE of 𝛼 plateaus even
earlier after 60 iterations. Since 𝑘! is the more relevant parameter for assessing
electrocatalytic activity as it directly determines electrocatalytic performance, stopping after
140 iterations is justified, which reduces the number of required measurements to 15%.
In practice, during an autonomous SECCM experiment where ground truth is unavailable, the
mean predictive variance can serve as a real-time stopping criterion, as demonstrated
previously for autonomous electrical resistance measurements [24]. In the present dataset,
the predictive variance plateaus at approximately the same iteration count at which the MAE
of 𝑘! converges. Figure S24 shows the predictive variance over the number of iterations.
9

Figure 7: The 10 smallest (red) and highest (purple) standard rate constants 𝑘$ in (a) the ground truth
and (b) the predictions after 140 iterations.
Figure 7 compares the extracted 𝑘! values of the full ground truth dataset and the prediction
of 𝑘! after 140 training iterations. The Au Ir Rh composition range exhibits the lowest
60–80 10–30 10
activity values in both Figure 7a and 7b. The highest activity compositions are located in the
Rh-rich library. However, the maximum activity compositions of the raw measurement results
are broadly dispersed (Figure 7a), corresponding to noise in the data. Through the predictions
of the Gaussian process model, the trend (Figure 7b) reveals well-defined regions of high
activity at compositions near Au Ir Rh and Au Ir Rh with 𝑘! values of approximately
30 20 50 10 35 55
0.012 cm s–1. This corresponds to an exchange current density of 0.19 mA cm–2 at pH 1 and
1.9 mA cm–2 at pH 0. Although the activity is lower than that of Pt [25], these results support
the initial design strategy of combining Au, Ir, and Rh, showing a synergistic effect that
originates from mixing elements with strong and weak M–H interactions.
3. Conclusions
We have developed a fully autonomous robotic SECCM platform for high-throughput
electrochemical characterization of combinatorial thin-film materials libraries and
demonstrated its capabilities for accurately mapping large composition spaces on the example
of three libraries spanning the ternary Au–Ir–Rh composition space. The platform integrates
automated library exchange, tilt correction, and environmental atmosphere control into a single
workflow, enabling unattended operation without manual intervention.
A key advantage of the approach over conventional high-throughput electrochemical
screening methods is the use of the kinetic parameters, specifically the standard rate constant
𝑘! and the transfer coefficient 𝛼 as figures of merit, rather than current densities extracted at
a fixed overpotential. This approach is enabled by fitting the high-quality LSVs obtained by
SECCM with an analytical equation and allows the underlying Gaussian process model behind
the autonomous measurement protocol to predict LSVs from not yet measured areas based
on the already acquired information.
The platform demonstrated high measurement robustness since all 966 measurement areas
across the three libraries were characterized using a single nano-sized capillary. While the
present demonstration used three of ten currently available library slots, the available space
inside the Faraday cage would accommodate a substantially larger number of libraries (>50),
10

offering a clear path towards further upscaling. The minimal footprint of the capillary droplet
preserves the integrity of the thin-film surface and therefore enables subsequent
characterization (e.g. for other reactions), which is not possible with other electrochemical
characterization techniques.
The active learning framework further demonstrates that the number of measurements
required to accurately infer the composition-activity landscape is a small fraction of the total
library size. The noise-aware Gaussian process model is able to closely resemble the relative
trends after ~50 iterations and achieves near-converged predictions of 𝑘! within 100–140
iterations, by on average 50 areas per library. Therefore, approximately 15% of all
measurement areas are sufficient to reliably capture the composition-activity correlations
across the Au–Ir–Rh composition space. On this basis, a single capillary rated at 1000
measurements could in principle support campaigns spanning up to 20 materials libraries in a
single run.
While the present demonstration focused on HER, the platform is in principle applicable to a
broad range of electrochemical reactions, provided that an appropriate analytical LSV model
is established for parameter extraction. Taken together, the results establish the autonomous
robotic SECCM as a scalable and resource-efficient platform for accelerated electrochemical
materials discovery across complex composition spaces.
Author contributions
F. Thelen and M. Kim contributed equally to this work. F. Thelen: conceptualization,
methodology (measurement protocol, active learning framework, Gaussian process modeling,
web-interface protocol), software (Python implementation, data analysis pipeline), formal
analysis, data curation, validation, visualization (figures, animations, video production),
investigation (SECCM measurements and analysis, EDX/XPS/XRD/AFM analysis), writing —
original draft, writing — review and editing. M. Kim: conceptualization, methodology
(electrochemical measurement protocol, web-interface protocol), software (LabView
implementation), investigation (initial SECCM measurements and analysis), validation, writing
— original draft, writing — review and editing. G. A. de Oliveira: investigation (SECCM
measurements), writing — review and editing. J. L. Bürgel: investigation (sample fabrication,
SECCM/EDX/XPS/XRD/AFM measurements, XPS/AFM analysis), writing — original draft,
writing - review and editing. W. Schuhmann: conceptualization, supervision, resources, project
administration, funding acquisition, writing - review and editing. A. Ludwig: conceptualization,
supervision, resources, project administration, funding acquisition, writing - review and editing.
Conflict of interest
There are no conflicts of interest to declare.
Acknowledgements
This work was partially supported by different projects. A. Ludwig, F. Thelen and J. L. Bürgel
acknowledge funding from the European Union through the European Research Council
(ERC) Synergy Grant project 101118768 (DEMI). Views and opinions expressed are however
those of the authors only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or
ERCEA. Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for
them. Funding by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research
11

Foundation) CRC 1625, project number 506711657 is acknowledged by A. Ludwig, M. Kim,
G. A. de Oliveira, and W. Schuhmann. The authors acknowledge using ZGH infrastructure for
measurements (clean room (sputter deposition), electrochemistry lab, Scanning Electron
Microscope, Atomic Force Microscope and X-Ray Diffractometer). The members of the
mechanical workshop of the Faculty of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Ruhr University Bochum,
are acknowledged for fabrication of the sample table and holders.
Data availability
The data that support the findings of this study, including animations of both the original
active learning model, the noise-aware one as well as a video of the measurement process
are openly available in ZENODO at https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.20439519.
References
[1] T. Löffler, A. Ludwig, J. Rossmeisl, W. Schuhmann, What Makes High-Entropy Alloys
Exceptional Electrocatalysts?, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 60 (2021) 26894–26903.
https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202109212.
[2] L. Han, S. Zhu, Z. Rao, C. Scheu, D. Ponge, A. Ludwig, H. Zhang, O. Gutfleisch, H.
Hahn, Z. Li, D. Raabe, Multifunctional High-Entropy Materials, Nat. Rev. Mater. 9
(2024) 846–865. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41578-024-00720-y.
[3] T.A.A. Batchelor, J.K. Pedersen, S.H. Winther, I.E. Castelli, K.W. Jacobsen, J.
Rossmeisl, High-Entropy Alloys as a Discovery Platform for Electrocatalysis, Joule 3
(2019) 834–845. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2018.12.015.
[4] A. Ludwig, Discovery of New Materials Using Combinatorial Synthesis and High-
Throughput Characterization of Thin-Film Materials Libraries Combined with
Computational Methods, Npj Comput. Mater. 5 (2019) 70.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-019-0205-0.
[5] H. Koinuma, I. Takeuchi, Combinatorial Solid-State Chemistry of Inorganic Materials,
Nature Mater. 3 (2004) 429–438. https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat1157.
[6] F. Thelen, R. Zehl, R. Zerdoumi, J.L. Bürgel, L. Banko, W. Schuhmann, A. Ludwig,
Accelerating Combinatorial Electrocatalyst Discovery with Bayesian Optimization: a
Case Study in the Quaternary System Ni-Pd-Pt-Ru for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction,
Adv. Sci. 12 (2025) e07302. https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.202507302.
[7] K. Sliozberg, D. Schäfer, T. Erichsen, R. Meyer, C. Khare, A. Ludwig, W. Schuhmann,
High-Throughput Screening of Thin-Film Semiconductor Material Libraries I: System
Development and Case Study for Ti-W-O, ChemSusChem 8 (2015) 1270–1278.
https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201402917.
[8] E.B. Tetteh, O.A. Krysiak, A. Savan, M. Kim, R. Zerdoumi, T.D. Chung, A. Ludwig, W.
Schuhmann, Long-Range SECCM Enables High-Throughput Electrochemical
Screening of High Entropy Alloy Electrocatalysts at Up-To-Industrial Current Densities,
Small Meth. 8 (2024) 2301284. https://doi.org/10.1002/smtd.202301284.
[9] N. Pukhareva, M. Kim, F. Thelen, G. Arruda De Oliveira, R. Zehl, W. Schuhmann, A.
Ludwig, Compositional and Structural Impact on the Hydrogen Evolution Reaction
Activity across Noble-Metal-Based Compositionally Complex Solid Solutions Thin Film
12

Libraries, ACS Electrochem. 2 (2026) 364–373.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00406.
[10] J.L. Bürgel, R. Zehl, F. Thelen, R. Zerdoumi, O.A. Krysiak, B. Kohnen, E. Suhr, W.
Schuhmann, A. Ludwig, Exploration of Nanostructured High-Entropy Alloys for Key
Electrochemical Reactions: A Comparative Study for the Solid Solution Systems Cu–
Pd–Pt–Ru, Ir–Pd–Pt–Ru and Ni–Pd–Pt–Ru, Faraday Discuss. 264 (2026) 64–82.
https://doi.org/10.1039/D5FD00082C.
[11] V.A. Mints, J.K. Pedersen, A. Bagger, J. Quinson, A.S. Anker, K.M.Ø. Jensen, J.
Rossmeisl, M. Arenz, Exploring the Composition Space of High-Entropy Alloy
Nanoparticles for the Electrocatalytic H /CO Oxidation with Bayesian Optimization,
2
ACS Catal. 12 (2022) 11263–11271. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c02563.
[12] N. Namuersaihan, Z. Zhao, O.J. Conquest, Y. Shu, H. Sun, C. Su, Q. Cheng, A. Soon,
C. Stampfl, J. Huang, Accelerated Discovery of High Performance Ni S /Ni Mo HER
3 4 3
Catalysts via Bayesian Optimization, Adv. Func. Mater. 36 (2026) e28363.
https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202528363.
[13] T. Dai, S. Vijayakrishnan, F.T. Szczypiński, J.-F. Ayme, E. Simaei, T. Fellowes, R.
Clowes, L. Kotopanov, C.E. Shields, Z. Zhou, J.W. Ward, A.I. Cooper, Autonomous
Mobile Robots for Exploratory Synthetic Chemistry, Nature 635 (2024) 890–897.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-024-08173-7.
[14] B.P. MacLeod, F.G.L. Parlane, T.D. Morrissey, F. Häse, L.M. Roch, K.E. Dettelbach, R.
Moreira, L.P.E. Yunker, M.B. Rooney, J.R. Deeth, V. Lai, G.J. Ng, H. Situ, R.H. Zhang,
M.S. Elliott, T.H. Haley, D.J. Dvorak, A. Aspuru-Guzik, J.E. Hein, C.P. Berlinguette,
Self-driving Laboratory for Accelerated Discovery of Thin-Film Materials, Sci. Adv. 6
(2020) eaaz8867. https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aaz8867.
[15] Z. Zhang, Z. Ren, C.-W. Hsu, W. Chen, Z.-W. Hong, C.-F. Lee, A. Penn, H. Xu, D.J.
Zheng, S. Miao, Y. Huang, Y. Gao, W. Chen, H. Smith, Y. Niu, Y. Tian, Y.-R. Lu, Y.-C.
Shao, S. Li, H.-T. Wang, I.I. Abate, P. Agrawal, Y. Shao-Horn, J. Li, A Multimodal
Robotic Platform for Multi-Element Electrocatalyst Discovery, Nature 647 (2025) 390–
396. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-025-09640-5.
[16] B.P. MacLeod, F.G.L. Parlane, C.C. Rupnow, K.E. Dettelbach, M.S. Elliott, T.D.
Morrissey, T.H. Haley, O. Proskurin, M.B. Rooney, N. Taherimakhsousi, D.J. Dvorak,
H.N. Chiu, C.E.B. Waizenegger, K. Ocean, M. Mokhtari, C.P. Berlinguette, A Self-
Driving Laboratory Advances the Pareto Front for Material Properties, Nat. Commun.
13 (2022) 995. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-28580-6.
[17] K.L. Anderson, M.A. Edwards, Evaluating Analytical Expressions for Scanning
Electrochemical Cell Microscopy (SECCM), Anal. Chem. 95 (2023) 8258–8266.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.analchem.3c00216.
[18] C. Wei, S. Sun, D. Mandler, X. Wang, S.Z. Qiao, Z.J. Xu, Approaches for Measuring
the Surface Areas of Metal Oxide Electrocatalysts for Determining their Intrinsic
Electrocatalytic Activity, Chem. Soc. Rev. 48 (2019) 2518–2534.
https://doi.org/10.1039/C8CS00848E.
[19] C. Wei, R.R. Rao, J. Peng, B. Huang, I.E.L. Stephens, M. Risch, Z.J. Xu, Y. Shao-
Horn, Recommended Practices and Benchmark Activity for Hydrogen and Oxygen
Electrocatalysis in Water Splitting and Fuel Cells, Adv. Mater. 31 (2019) 1806296.
https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201806296.
[20] C. Lin, R.G. Compton, Understanding Mass Transport Influenced Electrocatalysis at the
Nanoscale via Numerical Simulation, Cur. Opin. Electrochem. 14 (2019) 186–199.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coelec.2018.08.001.
13

[21] G. Arruda De Oliveira, M. Kim, C.S. Santos, N. Limani, T.D. Chung, E.B. Tetteh, W.
Schuhmann, Controlling Surface Wetting in High-Alkaline Electrolytes for Single Facet
Pt Oxygen Evolution Electrocatalytic Activity Mapping by Scanning Electrochemical Cell
Microscopy, Chem. Sci. 15 (2024) 16331–16337. https://doi.org/10.1039/D4SC04407J.
[22] S. Trasatti, Work function, Electronegativity, and Electrochemical Behaviour of Metals,
J. Electroanal. Chem. Interfac. Electrochem. 39 (1972) 163–184.
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(72)80485-6.
[23] F. Thelen, F. Lourens, A. Ludwig, Accelerating Surface Composition Characterization
of Thin-Film Materials Libraries Using Multi-Output Gaussian Process Regression, Adv.
Intell. Discov. 2 (2026) e202500062. https://doi.org/10.1002/aidi.202500062.
[24] F. Thelen, L. Banko, R. Zehl, S. Baha, A. Ludwig, Speeding Up High-Throughput
Characterization of Materials Libraries by Active Learning: Autonomous Electrical
Resistance Measurements, Digit. Discov. 2 (2023) 1612–1619.
https://doi.org/10.1039/D3DD00125C.
[25] E.B. Tetteh, M. Kim, A. Savan, A. Ludwig, T.D. Chung, W. Schuhmann, Reassessing
the Intrinsic Hydrogen Evolution Reaction Activity of Platinum Using Scanning
Electrochemical Cell Microscopy, Cell Rep. Phys. Sci. 4 (2023) 101680.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.xcrp.2023.101680.
14

Supporting Information
Autonomous scanning electrochemical cell microscopy enables rapid
exploration of large compositionally complex material spaces
Felix Thelen1‡, Moonjoo Kim2‡, Geovane Arruda de Oliveira2, Jan Lukas Bürgel1, Wolfgang
Schuhmann2*, Alfred Ludwig1,*
1Chair for Materials Discovery and Interfaces, Institute for Materials, Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, Ruhr
University Bochum, Universitätsstraße 150, 44801 Bochum, Germany
2Analytical Chemistry - Center for Electrochemical Sciences (CES), Faculty of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Ruhr
University Bochum, Universitätsstraße 150, 44801 Bochum, Germany
‡These authors contributed equally.
*corresponding authors: alfred.ludwig@rub.de; wolfgang.schuhmann@rub.de
Table of contents
1. Experimental procedures 2
1.1. Synthesis of thin-film materials libraries synthesis in the system Au–Ir–Rh 2
1.2. High-throughput energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) 2
1.3. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) 2
1.4. High-throughput X-ray diffraction (XRD) 3
1.5. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) 3
1.6. Autonomous scanning electrochemical cell microscopy (SECCM) platform 3
1.7. Electrochemical measurements and data treatment 8
1.8. Cost-aware active learning framework 9
2. Supplementary figures (Figure S7–S23) and supplementary notes 11
2.1. Analysis of the volume composition 11
2.2. Analysis of the surface composition 11
2.3. Analysis of the phase constitution 14
2.4. Analysis of the surface morphology 17
2.5. Analysis of the performance of the autonomous SECCM measurement 20
2.6. Original active learning of HER electrocatalytic activity in Au–Ir–Rh CCSS 21
References 25
1

1. Experimental procedures
1.1. Synthesis of thin-film materials libraries synthesis in the system Au–Ir–Rh
The depositions of thin-film materials libraries were performed in a sputter system (“ATC2200”,
AJA International, Inc.) with 8 cathodes (“A320-XP UHV”, AJA International). For Rh and Ir,
pulsed DC power supplies (“DCXP 1500”, AJA International) were used in DC-mode. Au was
sputtered using an RF-power supply (“0313 GTC”, connected to a “AIT-600 RF Auto Tuner”,
both AJA International). The depositions were performed in Ar-atmosphere at a pressure of
0.667 Pa with a flow rate of 30 sccm. Elemental targets with a diameter of 50.8 mm were used:
Au (Testbourne, purity: 99.99%, factory thickness: 3 mm), Rh (Tesbourne, purity: 99.95%,
factory thickness: 2 mm), Ir (Alfa Aesar, purity: 99.9%, factory thickness: 3 mm), Ta
(Testbourne, purity: 99.99%, factory thickness: 6.25 mm). Due to limited adhesion of noble
metals on the sapphire substrate, a Ta adhesion layer (nominal thickness 10 nm) was
deposited on the substrates (Si-Mat - Silicon Materials e.K., diameter: 100 mm, c-cut) prior to
the deposition of the noble metal layer. The deposition parameters of each library and cathode
can be found in Table S1. The deposition time was selected to obtain an average film thickness
of 100 nm for each library.
Table S1: Deposition parameters for the three materials libraries. The corresponding research data
management identification numbers for the libraries are 0011389 for the Au-rich library, 0011387 for
the Ir-rich one and 0011388 for the Rh-rich library.
Au (cathode 1) Ir (cathode 6) Rh (cathode 3)
RF power supply DC power supply DC power supply
Library Power Voltage Tune/ Power Voltage Current Power Voltage Current Time
[W] [V] Load [W] [V] [A] [W] [V] [A] [s]
[%]
Au-rich 83 63 56/13 37 296 0.13 36 246 0.153 1120
Ir-rich 29 45 54/22 80 324 0.25 26 247 0.112 1500
Rh-rich 23 42 54/21 20 288 0.075 55 260 0.218 2200
1.2. High-throughput energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX)
The investigation of chemical composition was performed using a scanning electron
microscope (SEM, “VEGA3”, Tescan) equipped with W filament and an EDX-detector (“XFlash
7”, Bruker). Each measurement area was analyzed with an acceleration voltage of 20 kV, a
view field of 300 µm and a working distance of 15 mm. A deadtime of 25% was maintained
throughout the screening. The acquired spectra were quantified using the “Esprit 2.6” Software
(Bruker).
1.3. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS)
XPS-measurements were conducted using an automated XPS (“Axis Nova”, Krathos)
equipped with a monochromatic Al Kɑ radiation source operating at 180 W (15 mA emission
current, 12 kV anode voltage) and a delay-line detector with 20 eV pass energy. High-
resolution spectra were acquired for the Ir 4f, Au 4f and Rh 3d as well as the C 1s and the O
1s region. For quantification, a Shirley background subtraction was used alongside the
2

systems built in relative sensitivity factors (“ESCApe”, Kratos). Charge referencing was done
using the C 1s peak (adventitious C-C at 284.8 eV).
1.4. High-throughput X-ray diffraction (XRD)
The measurements were performed using a diffractometer (D8 Discover, Bruker), which is
equipped with a Cu microfocus X-ray source (Incotec IµS High Brilliance, λ = 0.15418 nm) and
a 2D-Detector (Vantec-500, Bruker). The detector covers an angular range of 40°. Frames of
diffraction data were collected at the 2θ angles of 30°, 55°, and 80°, providing a combined
coverage of 10° to 100°. The three recorded diffractogram frames were stitched together
utilizing the “DIFFRAC.EVA” software (Bruker) and converted to a 1D-diffractogram. The
software was further employed to subtract the background (threshold: 0.7, curvature: 0.3).
1.5. Atomic force microscopy (AFM)
For the roughness measurements, an AFM (“Fast Scan”, Bruker) was used with a “ScanAsyst-
Air”-probe (Bruker, spring constant approximately 0.4 N m−1) in the PeakForce Tapping mode
with ScanAsyst. The software “NanoScope Analysis 1.8” (Bruker) was used to process the
data and calculate the roughness of the thin films.
1.6. Autonomous scanning electrochemical cell microscopy (SECCM) platform
The robotic SECCM platform was developed based on the long-range SECCM reported in our
previous work [1]. A single-barrel, laser-pulled quartz capillary with a tip-opening diameter of
approximately 500 nm is positioned at the center of the instrument. The capillary is
mechanically coupled to a three-axis piezo actuator (PiezoConcept C3.200), enabling
translation in x, y, and z with a nanoscale positioning precision of 0.2 nm and a range of motion
of 200 µm per axis. The capillary and piezo assembly are mounted on a rigid stand to
kinematically decouple them from the remaining moving components of the system. The
capillary is enclosed by a 3D-printed environmental chamber with an 8 mm bottom aperture,
continuously purged with humidified Ar at a flow rate of 20 ml min-1. The environmental
chamber is mounted on a dedicated stepper motor, allowing it to be raised and lowered
independently of the other axes. A Wheatstone bridge-type force sensor connected to the
chamber enables reliable detection of surface contact upon approach.
The internal geometry of the environmental chamber is shown in Figure S1a. The capillary is
inserted from above into a central tube of 4 mm inner diameter. A ring of radial channels
connects to this central tube near the top of the chamber, directing a portion of the Ar flow
upward through the gap between the capillary and the inner wall, thereby preventing ambient
air from entering the chamber from above. The remaining Ar flow exits through the 8 mm
bottom aperture, where a concentric ring of channels surrounds the capillary tip, maintaining
an inert atmosphere at the droplet at the tip of the capillary. During measurements, the
chamber is positioned 0.1 mm above the sample surface, which is small enough to suppress
diffusion of ambient air into the chamber while avoiding mechanical contact with the sample.
3

Figure S1: Environmental chamber design and automated surface detection. (a) Cross-sectional
schematic of the 3D-printed environmental chamber. The capillary is inserted into the central tube. A
humidified Ar flow is directed through a ring of radial channels that exit the top of the central tube and
through a concentric ring at the bottom aperture, maintaining an inert atmosphere around the capillary.
Arrows indicate the Ar flow path. (b) Representative force-position profile recorded during the
automated chamber approach routine. The chamber is lowered in ten discrete steps (points 1–10) and
a linear regression baseline (both visualized in green) is fitted to the recorded force values. Surface
contact is identified when the incremental force increase exceeds three times the regression slope
(orange points 11–14). The chamber is subsequently retracted until the force returns below the baseline
(retraction indicated in purple) and the resulting position is recorded as the chamber operating height
(point 16).
In order to determine the correct chamber operating height for each newly transferred
materials library, an automated surface detection routine is performed after the transfer of the
library onto the sample table. The chamber is lowered in ten discrete steps toward the surface
of the materials library while Ar flow is active, and the force sensor reading is recorded at each
position. A linear regression model is fitted to these ten force-position data points to establish
a baseline response. During subsequent downward steps, the surface is considered being
reached when the incremental force change between consecutive positions exceeds three
times the slope of the regression line, indicating contact. The chamber is then retracted
stepwise until the measured force falls back below the regression line, confirming that contact
has been released. The corresponding z-position is recorded as the operating height of the
environmental chamber, at which it hovers reproducibly above the surface of the materials
library throughout the experiment (Figure S1b).
The thin-film materials libraries are mounted on CNC-machined polyvinyl chloride (PVC)
sample holders and secured with gold-plated screws and washers (Feinmechanik, Faculty of
Chemistry and Biochemistry, Ruhr University Bochum). The sample holders feature
chamfered edges on the underside, ensuring self-aligning placement on the sample table even
with imprecise robotic positioning. The sample holder and table design is illustrated in
Figure S2. Spring-loaded, gold-plated contact pins embedded in the sample table establish
electrical contact with the sample holder upon placement, grounding the materials library. A
ballast plate integrated into the base of the sample holder provides the additional mass
required to reliably compress the contact pins.
4

Figure S2: Sample holder and table design. Cross-sectional schematic of the sample holder (top) and
sample table (bottom). The thin-film materials library (purple) is secured to the PVC sample holder by
gold-plated screws (blue) which extend through the holder body toward its underside. Spring-loaded,
gold-plated contact pins (blue) are embedded in the sample table at positions corresponding to the
screws, so that placement of the holder onto the table establishes electrical contact between the
materials library and the instrument ground. Chamfered edges on both components enable self-aligning
placement, compensating for the positional tolerance of the robotic arm.
Sample stage translation in all three axes is achieved using a sub-micrometer-resolution
stepper motor system (Owis), controlled via a four-axis LStep Express PCIe controller (Lang).
A six-axis collaborative robot (UFactory Lite 6) equipped with a mechanical gripper (600 g
payload) handles automated transfer of sample holders between two storage cassettes and
the sample table. Each cassette accommodates five sample holders, for a total capacity of ten
slots across two cassettes, all designed with the same interface geometry as the sample table.
The entire instrument is enclosed within a Faraday cage to suppress electromagnetic
interference.
A microscope camera (The Imaging Source, DFK 33UX264) is directed toward the capillary
tip and serves a dual purpose: assisting with capillary mounting and enabling automated, real-
time detection of the capillary tip and its reflection in the camera image in order to position the
capillary in the working range of the piezo actuator above the sample surface. This is achieved
through an automated visual approach routine shown in Figure S3. A single DC-voltage LED
positioned opposite the camera, with the capillary between them, provides high-contrast
backlighting. The camera image is converted to greyscale and binarized using an intensity
threshold, after which a contour detection algorithm [2] implemented in OpenCV identifies the
capillary tip and its mirror reflection on the sample surface. The pixel distance between the tip
contour and its reflection is continuously monitored and serves as a proxy for the tip-to-sample
separation (Figure S3a).
5

Figure S3: Automated visual approach routine. (a) Representative camera image showing the capillary
tip and its mirror reflection on the metallic sample surface, with both contours highlighted by the
detection algorithm (red outlines). (b) Illustration of the visual approach algorithm. The sample state is
first raised until the capillary reflection becomes visible (grey crosses). Five discrete upward steps are
then performed, and the corresponding tip-reflection pixel distances are recorded (green points). A
linear regression model fitted to these data points is used to calculate the target z-position at which the
tip-to-sample distance equals 100 µm, defining the handover point between the stepper motor and the
piezo actuator.
The approach routine proceeds as follows (Figure S3b): The sample stage is moved upward
until the reflection of the capillary tip becomes visible in the camera image. The capillary itself
remains fixed in the setup, therefore only its reflection is changing during movements. The
sample is afterwards moved toward the tip in five discrete steps, and the pixel distance
between the tip and reflection is recorded at each position. A linear regression model is fitted
to these five distance-position pairs. From the slope and intercept of the regression line, the
target z-position at which the tip-to-sample distance equals 100 µm is calculated,
corresponding to a tip–reflection distance in the camera image of 200 µm. The sample stage
is then moved to this calculated position, placing the capillary tip within the 200 µm travel
range of the piezo actuator. This strategy requires a reflective sample surface to generate a
detectable mirror image of the capillary tip. All metallic thin-film materials libraries satisfy this
requirement inherently. For thin films based on oxides, which are typically transparent, a
metallic underlayer can be deposited to provide the necessary reflectivity. These underlayers
are frequently required anyways to ensure electric conductivity of oxide films.
Due to mechanical imperfections in the instrument alignment, warp of the wafer substrates,
and non-planar deformation introduced by the contact screws during mounting, a spatially
varying tilt of the sample surface is likely in every experiment and must be compensated to
ensure reliable capillary approach across all measurement areas. Performing the full visual
approach routine described alongside Figure S3 at each measurement area is, however, not
feasible. Beyond the associated time cost, the routine is susceptible to failure in areas where
the capillary reflection is partially or fully obstructed, for example by dust, surface defects, or
the contact screws. An assessment of the capillary visibility across all measurement areas
revealed that 25 areas showed only a partial reflection of the capillary and 18 areas showed
no visibility of the capillary and/or its reflection at all, predominantly at positions near the
screws or the edge of the library (Figure S4a).
6

Figure S4: Gaussian process-based tilt correction across a materials library. (a) Map of capillary
visibility in the camera image across all 342 measurement areas. Green areas indicate full visibility,
orange areas indicate partial visibility, and red areas indicate positions where the tip or its reflection is
obstructed, due to the edge of the wafer or obstruction by the contact screws. (b) Distribution of the 11
calibration areas selected for the visual approach routine color-coded with the measured z-position
required to achieve a 100 µm tip-to-sample distance. (c) Predicted z-positions across all measurement
areas obtained from a Gaussian process model trained on the 11 calibration measurements. The
predicted surface profile is used to set the step motor approach position at all areas where the visual
approach routine is not performed directly.
To enable a robust approach across the full library, a Gaussian process tilt correction algorithm
was implemented. First, the visual approach routine is performed at 11 measurement areas
distributed across the library, selected to provide broad coverage of the surface with a
concentration toward the lower portion of the library, where CNC machining artifacts in the
sample holder introduce greater non-planarity (Figure S4b). At each of these calibration areas,
the z-position corresponding to a tip-to-surface distance of 100 µm is determined using the
visual approach routine and recorded. A Gaussian process model with a squared exponential
kernel is then trained on these 11 position measurements, taking the x-y coordinates of each
calibration area as input and the corresponding z-positions as output training data. The trained
model then predicts the required approach z-position at all remaining areas across the library
(Figure S4c). A Gaussian process model was chosen over a simpler linear fit to accommodate
the possibility of non-linear surface deformation and since a Gaussian process is already part
of the software dependencies as part of the active learning strategy.
The control software consists of two communicating components. Fine positioning via the
piezo actuator and electrochemical data acquisition via an FPGA card (PCIe-7852R, National
Instruments) coupled to a variable-gain transimpedance amplifier (DLPCA-200, FEMTO
Messtechnik) are handled by a LabVIEW program, extending an earlier version of the control
software. Orchestration of the remaining components, including sample transfer, stepper
motor control of the sample stage and environmental chamber, real-time tip detection,
automatic tilt correction, and execution of the active learning algorithm, is implemented in
Python and was developed specifically for this work. The two software components
communicate via a REST API using a server–server architecture. The API endpoints are
shown in Figure S5. Depending on the request, both interfaces are operating as a server or
client. Under typical operating conditions, electrochemical characterization of a single
measurement area requires approximately 90 s, while sample transfer (including
environmental chamber approach and automatic tilt correction) takes approximately 4 min.
7

Figure S5: Flow diagram of the measurement procedure and the REST API between the Python and
LabView interfaces. The Python interface handles the robotic transfer as well as the environmental
chamber and visual capillary approach. After the capillary has reached its handoff position 100 µm, the
Python interface sends a POST request to the LabView interface for starting the measurement. LabView
continues with approaching the capillary using the piezo actuators and proceeds with the
electrochemical measurement. Afterwards, the capillary is retracted with the piezo and a POST request
indicating the completion of the measurement is sent to the Python interface, which continues by
retracting the capillary with the step motors and updating the Gaussian process with the newly acquired
measurement results. The environmental chamber remains at its hovering distance above the surface
of the sample to ensure an inert atmosphere around the capillary. From there, the device either
proceeds with measuring the next area on the current library or decides to switch the library according
to the shown active learning algorithm.
1.7. Electrochemical measurements and data treatment
The HER voltammograms were measured in aqueous solutions containing 0.1 M HClO and
4
0.1 M LiClO (pH 1.2) with a scan rate of 1 V/s. A reversible hydrogen reference electrode
4
(Gaskatel Mini-HydroFlex) was used. The measured voltammograms exhibited a sigmoidal
shape, which is characteristic of HER voltammograms in SECCM. Although the same SECCM
tip was used throughout, mass transport varies with surface wetting [3]. It depends on the
material’s properties and the measurement time, as evidenced by variations in the limiting
current (𝑖 ) of the sigmoidal voltammograms.
!"#
We used the analytical expression for the steady-state SECCM voltammograms (Equation 1)
[4] to extract the kinetic parameter, which is decoupled from mass transport effects.
−𝑛𝐹𝐴𝑚𝑐 ∙exp (−𝛼𝑓𝜂)
$
𝑖 =
𝑚 (1)
+exp(−𝛼𝑓𝜂)+exp ((1−𝛼)𝑓𝜂)
𝑘%
Here 𝑛 is the number of the transferred electrons (𝑛 = 2), F is the Faraday constant, 𝑚 is the
mass transport coefficient (defined as 𝑚 = 𝑖&'(()/𝑛𝐹𝐴𝑐 ), 𝛼 is the charge transfer coefficient,
!"# $
8

𝜂 is the overpotential (defined as 𝜂 = 𝐸−𝐸%), and 𝑘% is the standard rate constant. Each LSV
was fitted with the fitting variables of 𝑖 , 𝛼 and 𝑘% with non-linear least-squares regression.
!"#
The individual effects of the three parameters on the LSV’s shape are illustrated in Figure S6.
𝑘% represents intrinsic electrocatalytic kinetics, while 𝛼 can be interpreted as a mechanistic
indicator in HER, given that the Tafel slope = 2.303 𝑅𝑇/𝛼𝐹 in the Tafel region. However, we
note that 𝛼 values extracted from SECCM voltammograms should be regarded as apparent
parameters rather than accurate mechanistic interpreters. The high scan rates in SECCM
voltammetry may distort the 𝛼 values.
Figure S6: Effect of the LSV parameters on the LSV’s shape with the standard parameters 𝑖 =4,
!"#
𝑘$ =0.004, and 𝛼 =0.3. In each subplot, one parameter is varied according to the values indicated on
the colorbars, while the other parameters are kept constant. (a) Change of the shape when varying the
limiting current 𝑖 , which controls the minimum current density value the LSV asymptotically
!"#
approaches with higher absolute potentials. (b) Effect of the standard rate constant 𝑘$ on the shape of
the LSV. 𝑘$ controls the position of the inflection point on the potential axis (c) Effect of the transfer
coefficient 𝛼 on the LSV. 𝛼 controls the symmetry of the LSV.
1.8. Cost-aware active learning framework
To predict the transfer coefficient 𝛼 and standard rate constant 𝑘% from the volume
compositions, a multi-output Gaussian process with coregionalization kernel implemented in
GPflow [5] was used. A Gaussian process models a function 𝑓(𝑥) as a distribution over
functions, such that any finite set of function values follows a multivariate normal distribution:
𝑓(𝑥) ∼ 𝐺𝑃(𝜇(𝑥),𝑘(𝑥,𝑥′))
where 𝜇(𝑥) is the mean function and 𝑘(𝑥,𝑥′) is the covariance function [6]. The mean function
is commonly set to 𝜇(𝑥) = 0, as the input training data can be standardized, and the Gaussian
process is sufficiently flexible to capture the underlying mean structure. The covariance
function is defined by a kernel function which encodes the correlation between function values
at inputs 𝑥 and 𝑥′ and therefore controls the function's shape. Popular kernel choices are the
squared exponential kernel and the Matérn kernel class [7]. Due to preliminary studies [8,9] of
Gaussian processes predicting electrochemical activity and other functional properties of thin-
film materials libraries based on compositional trends, a Matérn kernel with 𝜈 = 5/2 was used.
Analysis of 𝛼 and 𝑘% distributions across materials libraries measured with long-range SECCM
before the development of the autonomous SECCM platform revealed that 𝑘% consistently
varies over several orders of magnitude within a single library. A logarithmic transformation of
9

𝑘% was therefore applied prior to the Gaussian process modeling to improve the predictive
accuracy.
Since 𝛼 and 𝑘% are jointly extracted from a single LSV fit, they are inherently correlated.
Modeling each output with an independent Gaussian process would fail to capture this
structure. A coregionalization kernel [10] was therefore used, which augments the input-space
kernel with an output covariance matrix 𝐾 encoding the inter-output relationships:
*
𝐾 ((𝑥,𝑙),(𝑥′,𝑙′)) = 𝐾 (𝑙,𝑙′)⋅𝑘(𝑥,𝑥′)
+,-./",0 *
where 𝑙 and 𝑙′ denote the different outputs. The Gaussian process is trained on the volume
compositions as inputs and the (partially transformed) parameters extracted from the LSVs of
the already measured areas. The compositions are converted to isometric log-ratio (ILR)
transformed, which resolves the sum-to-one constraint of the raw compositions [11,12]. At
each area, the Gaussian process posterior is tasked to predict the mean and epistemic
uncertainty. Predicted 𝑘% values are back transformed via exponentiation for interpretation.
The uncertainty is used as the acquisition function for pure-exploration active learning. To
determine when to switch libraries, the epistemic uncertainty is weighted by the estimated
measurement time 𝑡 for each measurement area, computed with:
#.12
𝑡 = 𝑡 +𝑡 +𝑑 /𝑣
#.12 3-102 1+4 1-.1 23.5
Where 𝑡 is the fixed sample transfer time, 𝑡 is the data acquisition time, 𝑑 is the
3-102 1+4 1-.1
distance from the current position to the candidate area, and 𝑣 is the lateral velocity of the
23.5
stepper motors. The area with the highest acquisition-cost-weighted epistemic uncertainty is
selected as the next measurement target.
10

2. Supplementary figures (Figure S7–S23) and supplementary notes
2.1. Analysis of the volume composition
Figure S7: (Volume) compositions of the Au-rich (a-c), Ir-rich (d-f) and Rh-rich (g-i) libraries acquired
by EDX.
2.2. Analysis of the surface composition
The autonomous exploration of the Au–Ir–Rh system was performed using compositions
acquired by energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX). EDX is a high-throughput technique
which enables automated compositional mappings of full thin-film materials libraries in
approximately ~1.5 h, making it a practical and cost-effective method for large-scale
screening. However, as the probing depth of EDX extends into the micrometer range, the
measured compositions represent volume-averaged compositions and can differ from the true
surface compositions, e.g. which may arise due to surface segregation effects [13]. Since
electrochemical activity is governed by the topmost one to three atomic layers of the catalyst
[14], it is important to assess whether EDX-derived compositions can serve as a reliable proxy
for the surface composition. Therefore, complementary surface-sensitive (approximately 5-
11

10 nm information depth) X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements were
performed at 13 evenly distributed areas on each of the three libraries. Given a measurement
duration of ~1.5 h per composition, full library mappings by XPS are generally experimentally
not feasible.
Figure S8: Surface compositions determined by XPS at 13 evenly distributed areas per library,
displayed on the 342-measurement area grid. The results are arranged in three rows corresponding to
the three libraries, with columns showing the contents of metallic Au, Ir, Rh, native Rh-oxide and Rh-
hydroxide in at.%. The spatial gradients of the metallic Rh, Rh-oxide and Rh-hydroxide contents follow
similar trends across all libraries.
The XPS results are shown in Figure S8, displayed on the same 342-measurement area grid
used throughout this work. In addition to the metallic peaks of Au, Ir, and Rh, detectable native
Rh oxide and hydroxide peaks were identified in the XPS spectra. The gradient of both the
Rh-oxide and Rh-hydroxide content follows that of the metallic Rh, consistent with a
composition-dependent oxidation behavior.
Figure S9 shows the correlation between surface and volume compositions for all three
constituents, with the black dashed line indicating perfect correlation. For this analysis, the
metallic and oxide Rh contributions were summed to obtain the total surface Rh content. The
correlation points for all three libraries fall close to the perfect correlation line, demonstrating
that the surface compositions are in good agreement with the volume compositions across the
full compositional range. The mean Euclidean distance between surface and volume
compositions is 4.2 at.%. This is consistent with the magnetron co-sputtering fabrication
process at room temperature, as under these conditions, sputtered atoms are quenched upon
arrival at the substrate, suppressing diffusion. A minor surface depletion of Ir (and a
corresponding enrichment of Rh) is observed at contents of 40-50 at.%. The fact that the
correlation trends extend continuously across library boundaries shows the reproducibility of
library synthesis by magnetron co-sputtering.
12

Figure S9: Correlation between XPS-derived surface compositions and EDX-derived volume
compositions for (a) Au, (b) Ir, and (c) Rh across the libraries. Data points are color-coded by library.
The black dashed line indicates perfect agreement between surface and volume compositions. For Rh,
the metallic and native oxide contents were summed to obtain the total surface Rh content. Data points
from all libraries fall close to the perfect correlation line across the full compositional range. A minor
surface depletion of Ir and corresponding enrichment of Rh is observed.
To obtain surface composition estimated for the full set of measurement areas beyond the 39
XPS-characterized locations, the remaining surface compositions were predicted from the
volume compositions using multi-output Gaussian process regression following the approach
described in [8]. Figure S10a shows the resulting overlay of volume and predicted surface
compositions across the full experimentally covered compositional range. The distribution is
consistent with the pairwise correlation shown in Figure S9, showing a minor shift of the
surface compositions toward Rh-rich regions relative to the volume compositions. Figure S10b
shows the spatial distribution of the surface Rh oxide content across the composition space.
The oxide fraction increases with Rh content, reaching nearly 30 at.% in the most Rh-rich
areas, and is negligible at Rh contents below approximately 10-20 at.%. Additionally, the Rh
oxide fraction is systematically higher in Au-Rh-rich regions than in Ir-Rh-rich ones, suggesting
a preferential oxidation of Rh when combined with Au.
Figure S10: Comparison of measured volume composition (EDX) and Gaussian process regression
predicted surface compositions across the full Au–Ir–Rh composition space. (a) Overlay of predicted
surface compositions and volume compositions on the ternary composition space for all measurement
13

areas. The systematic shift of surface compositions toward Rh-rich regions is consistent with Figure S9.
(b) Native Rh-oxide content mapped onto the ternary composition space. The Rh-oxide fraction
increases with total Rh content, reaching a maximum of 20 at.%, and is negligible at Rh contents below
approximately 50 at.%. (c) Native Rh-hydroxide content mapped onto the composition space.
Consistent with the Rh-oxide content, the hydroxide increases with Rh-content as well but starts to form
at Rh-contents of ~30 at.% or higher. The highest measured Rh-hydroxide content is 8.2 at.%.
2.3. Analysis of the phase constitution
XRD was performed on all three Au–Ir–Rh thin-film materials libraries to verify that a single-
phase solid solution is present across the full compositional range covered by the libraries.
This validation is necessary to ensure that the variations in electrocatalytic HER activity
observed by the SECCM can be attributed to compositional effects rather than to differences
in phase constitution or crystal structure.
Figures S11, S12, and S13 summarize the XRD results for the Au-rich, Ir-rich, and Rh-rich
libraries, respectively. Each figure is structured identically: subplot (a) of each figure shows
three representative diffractograms recorded on measurement areas 1 (Ir-rich), 241 (Rh-rich)
and 312 (Au-rich) compositions (positions indicated in the inset), together with the reference
peak positions of the dominant element as vertical lines; subplot (b) shows the distribution of
the fitted 2θ positions for each of the five reflections across the full library. Peak positions were
extracted by fitting a Voigt function to each reflection with non-linear least-squares regression.
Figure S11: XRD analysis of the Au-rich materials library. (a) Representative diffractograms recorded
at three measurement areas with Au-rich (measurement area 312), Ir-rich (area 1), and Rh-rich (area
241) compositions within the library. The inset indicates the location of the selected measurement areas
on the wafer level of the library, which were selected based on the cathode positions in the deposition
chamber. The vertical dotted lines mark the reference peak positions of fcc Au (ICSD 53764). (b)
Distributions of the fitted 2θ peak positions across the library for each of the five reflections assigned to
the (111), (200), (220), (311), and (222) planes of the fcc lattice. Peak positions were extracted by non-
linear least-squares fitting of a Voigt function to each reflection.
14

Figure S12: XRD analysis of the Ir-rich materials library. (a) Representative diffractograms recorded at
three measurement areas with Au-rich (measurement area 312), Ir-rich (area 1), and Rh-rich (area 241)
compositions within the library. The inset indicates the location of the selected measurement areas on
the physical library, which were selected based on the cathode positions in the deposition chamber.
The vertical dotted lines mark the reference peak positions of fcc Ir (ICSD 64992). (b) Distributions of
the fitted 2θ peak positions across the library for each of the five reflections assigned to the (111), (200),
(220), (311), and (222) planes of the fcc lattice. Peak positions were extracted by non-linear least-
squares fitting of a Voigt function to each reflection.
Figure S13: XRD analysis of the Rh-rich materials library. (a) Representative diffractograms recorded
at three measurement areas with Au-rich (measurement area 312), Ir-rich (area 1), and Rh-rich (area
241) compositions within the library. The inset indicates the location of the selected measurement areas
on the physical library, which were selected based on the cathode positions in the deposition chamber.
15

The vertical dotted lines mark the reference peak positions of fcc Rh (ICSD 52064). (b) Distributions of
the fitted 2θ peak positions across the library for each of the five reflections assigned to the (111), (200),
(220), (311), and (222) planes of the fcc lattice. Peak positions were extracted by non-linear least-
squares fitting of a Voigt function to each reflection.
In all three libraries, five reflections are consistently observed around 2θ of 40°, 46.7°, 68°,
82.2° and 86.5°, respectively, which correspond to the (111), (200), (220), (311) and (222)
planes of an fcc lattice. No additional reflections are detected, confirming that a single-phase
solid solution across the full measured compositional range is present. All five peaks across
the three libraries follow the same smooth peak shift distribution from the upper left (Au-rich)
to the lower right (Ir-Rh-rich). This smooth distribution also extends across libraries, as
indicated in Figure S14 showing the fitted 2θ position of the (111) reflection plotted on the Au–
Ir–Rh composition space. With the Au-rich corner (𝑐 = 83.8 𝑎𝑡.%) at 38.7° 2θ, the Ir-rich
67
corner (𝑐 = 92 𝑎𝑡.%) at 40.5° 2θ, and the Rh-rich corner (𝑐 = 77.4 𝑎𝑡.%) at 40.8° 2θ, a
8- 9:
substantially larger shift along the Au direction compared to a small shift between the Ir-rich
and Rh-rich corners can be observed. This reflects the difference in the elemental lattice
parameters (Au: 0.4073 nm, Ir: 0.3839 nm, Rh: 0.3803 nm 1) and is consistent with Vegard’s
law for the continuous solid solution.
Figure S14: Fitted 2θ position of the (111) reflection plotted across the Au–Ir–Rh composition space,
combining data from all three libraries. The peak position varies smoothly and continuously across the
fabricated compositional range, with a pronounced shift along the Au direction and only a minor shift
between the Ir-rich and Rh-rich corners, consistent with Vegard’s law. The continuous gradient confirms
the formation of a single-phase solid solution across the full investigated composition space.
In addition to the 1D diffractograms, the 2D patterns recorded from the area detector can be
used to assess crystallographic texture across the composition space. Representative 2D
patterns are shown in Figure S15. The Au-rich composition (Figure S15a) exhibits pronounced
spots in addition to the Debye-Scherrer rings, indicating that the single-phase solid solution is
textured in this region of the composition space. A similar but less pronounced effect can be
observed for the Ir-rich compositions (Figure S15b), where the rings dominate and only weak
spots are visible. In contrast, the Rh-rich compositions (Figure S15c) and compositions in the
center of the composition space (Figure S15d) show uniform Debye-Scherrer rings only,
indicating the absence of preferred orientation. Texture in the Au–Ir–Rh libraries is therefore
1 ICSD 53764, ICSD 64992, ICSD 52064
16

confined to the corners of the composition space, while the films in the center regions of the
composition space grow without preferred orientation.
Figure S15: 2D XRD patterns recorded from the area detector for representative compositions across
the Au–Ir–Rh composition space. (a) Au-rich composition (area 312 on the Au-rich library), showing
pronounced spots together with the Debye–Scherrer rings, indicative of crystallographic texture. (b) Ir-
rich composition (area 1 on the Ir-rich library), showing weak spots on otherwise dominant rings, (c) Rh-
rich composition (area 241 on the Rh-rich library) and (d) composition close to the equiatomic center of
the composition space (area 200 on the Rh-rich library), both showing only Debye-Scherrer rings,
indicating the absence of preferred orientation.
2.4. Analysis of the surface morphology
In order to assess whether the observed electrocatalytic activity trends across the Au–Ir–Rh
composition space could be confounded by systematic variations of the electrochemical
surface area, AFM measurements were performed in 15 selected areas distributed across the
three materials libraries. The AFM-derived surface roughness serves as a proxy for relative
differences in surface area between compositions. A 500 nm x 500 nm area was imaged at
each position, and the arithmetic mean roughness 𝑅 was extracted.
1
The 15 measurement areas were selected to systematically sample distinct regions of the
composition space (Figure S16a). Regions 1-3 were positioned at the compositionally extreme
regions of the libraries, capturing the highest content of Au, Ir, and Rh, respectively. Regions
4-6 were placed at the center of each individual library. Regions 7-9 were positioned in
compositional overlap regions between pairs of libraries, where two libraries have similar
elemental composition but were fabricated under different deposition conditions. These
regions enable a direct comparison of surface morphology across libraries. Finally, region 10
corresponds to the near-equiatomic center of the Au–Ir–Rh composition space. In this region,
one AFM measurement was performed on each of the three libraries.
17

Figure S16: AFM-based surface roughness analysis across the Au–Ir–Rh composition space. (a)
Overview of the 10 AFM analysis regions. Regions 1 (area 13 on the Ir-rich library), 2 (area 313 on Au-
rich), and 3 (area 240 on Rh-rich) correspond to the compositionally extreme regions with the highest
content of Au, Ir, and Rh. Regions 4–6 are located at the center of each individual library (measurement
area 168 on all libraries). Regions 7–9 are situated in pairwise compositional overlap regions between
libraries, where two AFM measurements were performed at each region (region 7: area 20 (Au-rich)
and 315 (Ir-rich), region 8: area 178 (Au-rich) and 297 (Rh-rich), region 9: area 178 (Ir-rich) and 16 (Rh-
rich)). Region 10 marks the near-equiatomic center of the ternary space, sampled on each of the three
libraries (area 55 on the Au-rich library, 342 on the Ir-rich, and 200 on the Rh-rich one). (b) Arithmetic
mean roughness 𝑅 (nm) of all 15 measurement areas, color-coded on the composition space. Regions
%
7 and 8 were magnified for increased visibility of the overlap.
The measured arithmetic mean roughness ranges from 0.7–1.6 nm across all 15 positions
(Figure S16b), confirming that all films are smooth at the nanoscale and that the absolute
difference in surface area between the compositions is small. Considering the distribution of
the standard rate constant 𝑘% varying over multiple orders of magnitude over the explored
composition space, the surface morphology differences do not represent a significant
confounding factor in the interpretation of composition–activity trends as described in the main
text. The roughness distribution also does not follow the smooth compositional gradients
observed for 𝑘% and 𝛼. The Au-rich library shows consistently lower roughness values (0.7–
1.2 nm), notably also in the overlapping regions with the other libraries. In contrast, the Ir-rich
and Rh-rich libraries show higher roughness values (> 1.2 nm) and show consistency in their
overlapping compositional regions (regions 9 and 10).
This absence of a smooth, composition-dependent roughness trend across the full ternary
space requires careful interpretation: with 15 measurement areas of 500 x 500 nm2 each
sampled across a total library area of 235 cm2, the coverage is sparse, and the present
measurements are not intended to provide a comprehensive mapping of surface morphology
across the composition space. The inter-library roughness offset observed at the overlap
regions nevertheless suggests that deposition parameters, and specifically the sputtering
powers which were adjusted between library fabrication to achieve different composition
spreads, may influence surface morphology independently of alloy composition.
AFM images recorded at all 15 measurement areas are compiled in Figures S17–S20,
organized by analysis region.
18

Figure S17: AFM images of compositions with highest content of each of the three elements
(Regions 1-3). (a) Region 1, recorded at measurement area 13 of the Ir-rich library. (b) Region 2,
recorded at area 313 of the Au-rich library. (c) Region 3, obtained from area 24 of the Rh-rich library.
Figure S18: AFM images in the center of each of the three materials libraries (regions 4-6) at
measurement area 168 of the (a) Ir-rich, (b) Au-rich, and (c) Rh-rich libraries.
19

Figure S19: AFM images of pairwise compositional overlap regions (regions 7-9). (a,b) Region 7,
recorded at measurement area 20 of the Au-rich library (a) and area 315 of the Ir-rich library (b). (c, d)
Region 8, obtained from area 178 of the Au-rich library (c) and area 297 of the Rh-rich library (d). (e, f)
Region 9, recorded at measurement area 178 of the Ir-rich library (e) and area 16 of the Rh-rich library
(f). Each pair of images represents nominally similar compositions.
Figure S20: AFM images of the ternary composition space center (region 10), obtained from each of
the three libraries: (a) measurement area 342 of the Ir-rich library, (b) area 55 of the Au-rich library, and
(c) area 200 of the Rh-rich library.
2.5. Analysis of the performance of the autonomous SECCM measurement
Figure S21 shows the evolution of the limiting current over the measurement order, revealing
a dependence on library transfers. During each transfer, the capillary is removed briefly (4 min)
20

from the controlled Ar-atmosphere of the environmental chamber for repositioning and tilt
correction. Partial drying of the electrolyte meniscus during this interval likely alters the
effective wetted contact area before the next approach, thereby shifting the measured limiting
current. Within each library, the limiting current shows high-frequency scatter reflecting the
compositionally distributed, non-sequential sampling of the library due to the active learning
algorithm. Superimposed with this is a low baseline drift, which could be associated with a
possible progressive surface oxidation of the thin-film libraries over the duration of the
measurement (26 h).
Figure S21: Limiting current density as a function of the measurement index across all 966 areas,
colored by library. Vertical steps in the limiting current coincide with the transitions between libraries,
reflecting brief exposure of the capillary to ambient conditions during the sample transfer. Within each
library, the limiting current shows a high-frequency scatter arising from the non-sequential sampling
pattern across different parts of the compositional gradient. In addition, there is a slow low amplitude
drift likely due to continuing oxidation.
2.6. Original active learning of HER electrocatalytic activity in Au–Ir–Rh CCSS
The active learning performance is evaluated retrospectively against the ground truth of all
966 measurements and summarized in Figure S22. The prediction accuracy is quantified by
the mean absolute error (MAE) of 𝑘% and 𝛼, and normalized to the respective parameter
ranges to allow direct comparison. The MAE of 𝑘% begins at 17% after the initialization
measurements and rises slightly to 20% during the first few iterations, due to reflecting the
initially limited compositional coverage of the initial dataset with respect to the entire space. It
subsequently decreases rapidly, reaching 5% and plateauing shortly by iteration 100, before
gradually approaching 1% over the remaining iterations. The MAE of 𝛼 follows a different
trajectory: it starts at 15% and drops sharply to 10% after the second iteration, before
increasing again to 14% until iteration 100. From there, it decreases gradually and
asymptotically approaches 5%.
21

Figure S22: Active learning performance and evolution of the predictions across the Au–Ir–Rh
composition space. (a) Mean absolute error (MAE) of the predicted 𝑘$ and 𝛼, each normalized to their
respective parameter ranges (𝑘$: 0.0003–0.0142 cm/s, 𝛼: 0.237–0.328) and expressed as a
percentage, over the number of learning iterations. The MAE is evaluated against the ground truth of
all 966 measurements. The vertical grey lines indicate library transfer events. (b) Predicted 𝑘$
distribution in the ternary composition space after the first active learning iterations, when the model
has been trained on the 8 initialization areas only. (c) Corresponding predicted 𝛼 distribution after the
first iteration. (d,e) Predicted distributions of 𝑘$ and 𝛼 after 100 iterations and (f,g) after 150 iterations.
The library transfer events, indicated in Figure S22a by vertical lines, occur more frequently at
the beginning of the autonomous measurement sequence. Following the initialization
measurements on the first (Ir-rich) library, the algorithm immediately transfers to the Rh-rich
library, performs a single measurement, and then switches to the Au-rich library. This behavior
is illustrated by Figure S22b, showing the measurement order on the composition space of
the first 50 iterations. This rapid library switching arises from the epistemic uncertainty of the
Gaussian process model being sufficiently large in the distant corners of the ternary
composition space and therefore outweighing the acquisition cost penalty associated with the
library transfer. The algorithm therefore prioritizes informational gain over measurement
efficiency in the early stage, sacrificing some throughput to rapidly reduce the uncertainty
across the full composition space. As measurements accumulate and the model uncertainty
is reduced, the cost of library transfers begins to dominate the acquisition function, causing
the device to remain on a single library for longer before switching.
22

The evolution of the model predictions is illustrated in Figures S22c-h, which show the
predicted distributions of 𝑘% and 𝛼 on the composition space at iterations 1, 100, and 150.
Even after a single iteration, the predicted distributions of both 𝑘% and 𝛼 already resemble the
ground truth, correctly capturing the global trends. Over subsequent iterations, the model
makes incremental adjustments, primarily refining local absolute values rather than altering
relative trends. This behavior is consistent with the measurement-order-dependent drift in both
parameters: as the model accumulates measurements across libraries and time, it
progressively adapts its absolute predictions to account for this drift. The relative trends, which
are of primary interest for combinatorial materials discovery, remain stable from early in the
campaign.
Figure S23: Active learning performance of the uncertainty-aware model and evolution of the
predictions across the Au–Ir–Rh composition space. (a) Mean absolute error (MAE) of the predicted 𝑘$
and 𝛼, each normalized to their respective parameter ranges and expressed as a percentage, over the
number of learning iterations. The MAE is evaluated against the ground truth of all 966 measurements.
The vertical grey lines indicate library transfer events. (b) Predicted 𝑘$ distribution in the ternary
composition space after the first active learning iterations, when the model has been trained on the 8
initialization areas only. (c) Corresponding predicted 𝛼 distribution after the first iteration. (d,e) Predicted
distributions of 𝑘$ and 𝛼 after 80 iterations and (f,g) after 140 iterations. In comparison to the predictions
of the original model, the distributions especially of 𝑘$ and, but also of 𝛼 are much smoother as the
model can access the measurement uncertainty as additional information for the predictions. The
uncertainty-aware model also no longer overfits, indicated by the MAE over the number of iterations not
approaching zero when the model has consumed most of the training data.
23

Comparing the predictions of 𝑘% and 𝛼 shows that the Gaussian process model appears to fit
local variations more closely for 𝑘% than for 𝛼. This is reflected in Figure S22a, where the MAE
of 𝑘% approaches 0% while that of 𝛼 stabilizes at ~5%, suggesting that the model overfits 𝑘%.
This behavior is a consequence of the logarithmic transformation applied to 𝑘%. While
beneficial to regress the exponential structure of the standard rate constant, the log
transformation compresses the range of the data from nearly two orders of magnitude in linear
space to a span of ~4 in log-space. This compression reduces the apparent replicate variance
relative to the signal range, causing the noise parameter learned by the Gaussian process to
converge to an artificially small value. This causes the model to interpret local fluctuations,
which partly reflect measurement noise and drift rather than genuine compositional features,
as true signal instead of smoothing them. A further contributing factor is the order in which
averaging and log-transformation were applied in the original workflow: three LSVs were
averaged per measurement area before extracting the LSV parameters and the log-
transformation of 𝑘%. While the mean is approximately preserved under this operation, the
variance is not, since 𝑣𝑎𝑟(𝑙𝑜𝑔(𝑘%)) cannot be recovered from 𝑙𝑜𝑔(𝑣𝑎𝑟(𝑘%)). Therefore, the
model misinterprets the noise variance, additionally contributing to the overfitting.
Figure S23 shows the active learning performance of the noise-aware Gaussian process
model, which receives measurement variance of the three LSVs per measurement area as
part of the Gaussian process likelihood. In contrast to Figure S22, the MAE of 𝑘% no longer
approaches 0% and the predictions exhibit visibly smoother trends.
Since the ground truth is unavailable during an autonomous SECCM measurement, the MAE
cannot be used as an indicator for a stopping criterion in regular campaigns. The mean
predictive variance can serve as a real-time stopping criterion. In the present dataset, this
mean predictive variance plateaus at approximately the same iteration count at which the MAE
of 𝑘% converges. Figure S24 shows the predictive variance over the number of iterations. Both
𝑘% and the mean predicted variance plateau around 140 iterations, making it a suitable
stopping criterion for this campaign. The authors note that a single test, as done here in case
of the active learning campaign in the Au–Ir–Rh composition space, is not enough to fully
establish a stopping criterion since tests must be performed on a wide range of materials
systems to ensure appropriate stopping for future campaigns.
Figure S24: Mean predicted variance together with the prediction error of 𝑘$ and 𝛼. Both 𝑘$ and the
mean predicted variance plateau at around 140 iterations, making the mean predicted variance a
suitable stopping criterion.
Figures S25 and S26 are available in ZENODO at https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.20439519
as animations. These show the active learning training data, predictions and acquisition
24

function values during each training iteration both for the original Gaussian process model
(Figure S25) as well as the noise-aware model (Figure S26).
References
[1] E.B. Tetteh, O.A. Krysiak, A. Savan, M. Kim, R. Zerdoumi, T.D. Chung, A. Ludwig, W.
Schuhmann, Long-Range SECCM Enables High-Throughput Electrochemical
Screening of High Entropy Alloy Electrocatalysts at Up-To-Industrial Current Densities,
Small Meth. 8 (2024) 2301284. https://doi.org/10.1002/smtd.202301284.
[2] S. Suzuki, K. Abe, Topological structural analysis of digitized binary images by border
following, Comp. Vis., Graphics, Image Proc. 30 (1985) 32–46.
https://doi.org/10.1016/0734-189X(85)90016-7.
[3] G. Arruda De Oliveira, M. Kim, C.S. Santos, N. Limani, T.D. Chung, E.B. Tetteh, W.
Schuhmann, Controlling Surface Wetting in High-Alkaline Electrolytes for Single Facet
Pt Oxygen Evolution Electrocatalytic Activity Mapping by Scanning Electrochemical Cell
Microscopy, Chem. Sci. 15 (2024) 16331–16337. https://doi.org/10.1039/D4SC04407J.
[4] K.L. Anderson, M.A. Edwards, Evaluating Analytical Expressions for Scanning
Electrochemical Cell Microscopy (SECCM), Anal. Chem. 95 (2023) 8258–8266.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.analchem.3c00216.
[5] A.G. de G. Matthews, M. van der Wilk, T. Nickson, K. Fujii, A. Boukouvalas, P. León-
Villagrá, Z. Ghahramani, J. Hensman, GPflow: A Gaussian Process Library using
TensorFlow, J. Machine Learning Res. 18 (2017) 1–6.
[6] C.E. Rasmussen, C.K.I. Williams, Gaussian Processes for Machine Learning, The MIT
Press, 2005. https://doi.org/10.7551/mitpress/3206.001.0001.
[7] K.P. Murphy, Machine Learning: A Probabilistic Perspective, MIT Press, Cambridge,
MA, USA, 2012.
[8] F. Thelen, F. Lourens, A. Ludwig, Accelerating Surface Composition Characterization
of Thin-Film Materials Libraries Using Multi-Output Gaussian Process Regression, Adv.
Intell. Discov. 2 (2026) e202500062. https://doi.org/10.1002/aidi.202500062.
[9] F. Thelen, R. Zehl, R. Zerdoumi, J.L. Bürgel, L. Banko, W. Schuhmann, A. Ludwig,
Accelerating Combinatorial Electrocatalyst Discovery with Bayesian Optimization: a
Case Study in the Quaternary System Ni-Pd-Pt-Ru for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction,
Adv. Sci. 12 (2025) e07302. https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.202507302.
[10] E. Bonilla, K. Chai, C. Williams, Multi-task Gaussian Process Prediction, in: Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, Curran Associates, Inc., 2007.
https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2007/hash/66368270ffd51418ec58bd793f2d9b
1b-Abstract.html (accessed May 29, 2026).
[11] M. Greenacre, Compositional Data Analysis, Annu. Rev. Stat. Appl. 8 (2021) 271–299.
https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-statistics-042720-124436.
[12] J.J. Egozcue, V. Pawlowsky-Glahn, G. Mateu-Figueras, C. Barceló-Vidal, Isometric
Logratio Transformations for Compositional Data Analysis, Math. Geol. 35 (2003) 279–
300. https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1023818214614.
[13] N. Pukhareva, M. Kim, F. Thelen, G. Arruda De Oliveira, R. Zehl, W. Schuhmann, A.
Ludwig, Compositional and Structural Impact on the Hydrogen Evolution Reaction
Activity across Noble-Metal-Based Compositionally Complex Solid Solutions Thin Film
25

Libraries, ACS Electrochem. 2 (2026) 364–373.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acselectrochem.5c00406.
[14] C.M. Clausen, T.A.A. Batchelor, J.K. Pedersen, J. Rossmeisl, What Atomic Positions
Determines Reactivity of a Surface? Long-Range, Directional Ligand Effects in Metallic
Alloys, Adv. Sci. 8 (2021) 2003357. https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.202003357.
26

