This article is licensed under CC-BY 4.0
http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
Metal Electrocatalysts for Hydrogen Production in Water Splitting
Amir Kazemi, Faranak Manteghi,* and Zari Tehrani*
CiteThis:ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335 ReadOnline
ACCESS
Metrics&More ArticleRecommendations
ABSTRACT: The rising demand for fossil fuels and the resulting
pollution have raised environmental concerns about energy
production. Undoubtedly, hydrogen is the best candidate for
producing clean and sustainable energy now and in the future.
Water splitting is a promising and efficient process for hydrogen
production,wherecatalystsplayakeyroleinthehydrogenevolution
reaction (HER). HER electrocatalysis can be well performed by Pt
withalowoverpotentialclosetozeroandaTafelslopeofabout30
mV dec−1. However, the main challenge in expanding the hydrogen
production process is using efficient and inexpensive catalysts. Due
to electrocatalytic activity and electrochemical stability, transition
metalcompoundsarethebestoptionsforHERelectrocatalysts.This
study will focus on analyzing the current situation and recent
advances in the design and development of nanostructured
electrocatalysts for noble and non-noble metals in HER electrocatalysis. In general, strategies including doping, crystallization
control, structural engineering, carbon nanomaterials, and increasing active sites by changing morphology are helpful to improve
HER performance. Finally, the challenges and future perspectives in designing functional and stable electrocatalysts for HER in
efficient hydrogen production from water-splitting electrolysis will be described.
1. INTRODUCTION currentlyaround$3.00pergallon,andwiththerecentdeclinein
Iran’soilproduction,itisreasonabletoexpectafurtherincrease
Today,politicalandeconomiccrisesandglobalconcernssuchas
inthepriceofdiesel.8
decliningfossilfuelreserves,environmentalpollution,acidrain,
Green hydrogen, also known as renewable hydrogen, is
global warming, overcrowding, rising consumption, and
hydrogen that is manufactured using only renewable energy,
economicgrowth are challengingscientists tofindappropriate
solutions to the world’s energy problems.1,2 This problem can typically by the process of water electrolysis (WE).9 The
hydrogenevolutionreaction(HER)throughwatersplittinghas
only be rectified by replacing green and renewable energy
sources.3 Inrecentdecades,hydrogenhasbeencalledthebest manyadvantages,includingthatthereactioncanbeperformed
at room temperature and atmospheric pressure. Selective
and most promising alternative due to its high gravitational
productionofoxygenandhydrogenispossibleinthisprocess,
energy density, environmental friendliness, and combustion
withoutproducingpollutants.4Meanwhile,theenergydensityof thus eliminating the gas separation step.10,11 Also, the source
used (H O) and the products made (O and H ) are
hydrogenisapproximatelyequivalentto33.5kWh/kgofusable 2 2 2
environmentally friendly. It is worth noting that despite the
energy,whilethisamountofenergyfordieselisabout13kWh/
tremendousadvantages,theHERhaslimitationsduetoitshigh
kg.5Inotherwords,theenergyof1kgofhydrogen,whichisused
electricpowerconsumptionandtheuseofoptimizedcatalysts.12
topowertheelectricmotorinfuelcells,isequivalenttoagallon
However, renewable energy application systems, including the
ofdiesel.Inanothercomparison,dieselhasalittlelowerenergy
HER,dependhighlyontheappropriateelectrocatalysttype.11,13
density(45.5MJ/kg)thangasoline(45.8MJ/kg).Ontheother
State-of-the-artpreciousmetalsandtheircompoundsareactive
hand,hydrogenhasanenergydensityofapproximately120MJ/
materialsforHERandoxygenevolutionreactions(PtforHER,
kg,almostthreetimesmorethandieselorgasoline.6Inthepast
decade, with the advent of electric propulsion, it has become
clear that these propulsions are much more efficient than Received: October10,2023
internalcombustionengines,makingenergychangeevenmore Revised: December28,2023
important. In internal combustion engines, almost half of the Accepted: December29,2023
energy is used to produce heat, while electric vehicle (EV) Published: January29,2024
engines waste less than 10% of energy as heat.7 Another
appealing feature of hydrogen is price. The diesel price is
©2024TheAuthors.Publishedby
AmericanChemicalSociety https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
7310 ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
IrO and RuO for OER, etc.).14 Up to now, Pt is the most useful applications. Electrochemical WE is a promising
2 2
efficient catalyst for HER, which requires very small over- technology to generate hydrogen fuel from water renewably;
potentials even at high reaction rates.15 Despite the high this is the process of converting water to pure and stable
efficiency of noble metals, high cost, and scarcity of reserves hydrogenthatismadeupoftwohalf-cellreactions:theoxygen
beingbarrierstolarge-scaleapplication,thisrequiresusingmore evolution (OER) and thehydrogen evolution(HER) reaction
affordableandabundantmaterialsfortheelectrocatalyst.16,17 processes.24Duetothehighpowerconsumptioninthisprocess,
The purpose of this study is to address the pressing catalystscanreducetherequiredpotentialbytheirperformance.
environmental concerns regarding energy production through Precious metal electrocatalysts (especially Pt-based) show the
the efficient and sustainable production of hydrogen through best performance for the molecular dissociation of water in
watersplitting.Hydrogenisapromisingsourceofcleanenergy, highly acidic electrolytes, although their HER activities are
and catalysts play a crucial role in the HER during water significantly reduced under alkaline conditions.25 As a result,
splitting. Platinum (Pt) exhibits excellent electrocatalytic considerable effort has gone into developing effective and
activity for HER, but its widespread adoption is hampered by sustainable electrocatalysts to replace precious metal catalysts.
costconsiderations.Weovercomethischallengebyturningto Chemically,bond-breakingandformingnewbondsareeffective
transition metal compounds, which offer both electrocatalytic ways to convert and store energy. According to this principle,
activityandelectrochemicalstability.Ananalysisofthecurrent WE,alsocalledwatersplitting,istheprocessofusingelectricity
state and recent advancements in nanostructured electro- to break down water molecules and form their constituent
catalystsforbothnobleandnon-noblemetalswillbepresented elements.26Theprocessofwatersplittingwithoutusingscarce
in this investigation. To enhance HER performance by andexpensiveelectrocatalyststoproducehydrogenhasmadeit
increasing active sites through morphological modifications, anattractiveoptiontomakerenewableenergymoreeconomical
wewillexplorevariousstrategies,suchasdoping,crystallization inrecentyears.
control, structural engineering, anion doping in addition to 2.1.FundamentalsoftheHER.Water,unlikefossilfuels,is
cation doping, and the use of carbon nanomaterials. The final anabundantandrenewableresourceonEarth,sothehydrogen
section of the presentation will discuss the challenges that lie (H )producedbywatersplittingcanbecalledthebestsolution
2
aheadandofferfutureperspectivesonhowtodesignfunctional toprovideacarrierofgreenandrenewableenergy.TheHERisa
and stable electrocatalysts for the HER in order to enable multistepprocessinvolvingadsorption,reduction,anddesorp-
efficienthydrogenproductionbywater-splittingelectrolysis. tion that takes place on the electrode surface and produces
gaseous hydrogen. The three general mechanisms in the HER
2. HER involvethefollowingreactionsteps:
Currently, hydrogen is mainly used as a raw material in the H 2 O + e V H ads + OH (Volmerstep) (1)
chemicalindustry,anditsuseasafuelforenergysupplyhasnot
yet become large-scale. The most economical and common H ads + H 2 O + e V H 2 + OH (Heyrovskystep) (2)
hydrogen generation methods are steam methane reforming
(SMR),coalgasification(CG),andWE18asshowninTable1.
2H V H (Tafelstep)
ads 2 (3)
Table1.ThreeMainCriteriaforHydrogenProductiononan TheHERmechanismbeginswiththeVolmerstep,whichis
IndustrialScale thedissociationofawatermoleculeandtheabsorptionofH+at
the electrode surface (electrocatalysis). The process is then
criteria source production reaction
followedbythechemicalreactionoftheHeyrovskysteporthe
ste re a f m or m m e in th g ane m s e t t e h a a m ne, H 2 ,CO 2 CH 4 +2H 2 4H 2 +CO 2 Tafel step. As per the intrinsic nature of electrocatalysis, the
reactioncanbecarriedoutwiththereactionoftwoadsorbedH
coalgasification coal,steam H 2 ,CO 2 C+2H 2 O 4H 2 +CO 2 (reaction) or the H adsorption with H+ (Heyrovsky reaction)
waterelectrolysis water H 2 ,O 2 2H 2 O 2H 2 +O 2 from the electrolyte to release the H 2 molecule. Whatever the
reaction steps, due to the adsorption of H in the reaction,
The SMR and CG have a price advantage, but they consume facilitating the adsorption process is the main task of the
fossilfuelsandareenvironmentallydamaging.Oneoftheabove electrocatalyst.27ThefreeenergyfromabsorptionofHinPtis
methods, the WE process, is a green energy method, which neartothethermoneutralstate(ΔG ≈0).ThatiswhyPtis
H*
produces ultrapure hydrogen (≫99.999) but costs more than widelyrecognizedasthegreatestHERelectrocatalystavailable
conventional methods.19 IEA (International Energy Agency) todate.NumerousarticleshavereportedthattheTafelstepin
analysis shows that renewable energy’s cost of hydrogen the high potential of the HER mechanism is insignificant, and
production could fall 30% by 2030.20 Although WE can solve the Volmer−Heyrovsky mechanism is used to carry out the
environmental problems as a renewable energy production reaction.13,28
technology, the application of this method is still minimal.21 2.2.AcidicandAlkalineMedia.Thekeyhalf-reactionfor
Nevertheless, adequate studies and research are underway to hydrogen production in water splitting occurs at the cathode,
improve this technology to reduce production costs on an whichinvolvesthetransferoftwohighlydependentelectronsin
industrial scale. In the electrolysis of water, the hydrogen− environmentalconditions.Thealkalineenvironmentisnowthe
oxygenbondinawatermoleculeisbrokenbyelectricalpower.22 focusofhydrogendevelopmentthroughtheHERtosubstitute
TheabilitytocarryoutWEwithouttheutilizationofprecious clean fuel for different energy systems. Due to an extra water
metalcatalystsintheHERandOERmakesitadesirableoption dissociationprocess,thekineticsofthisreactionaresluggishand
in justifying the economics of hydrogen production.23 There- cause a significant reduction in electrocatalytic performance.
fore, developing electrocatalysts with high activity and long- Therefore, modern electrocatalysts can perform well in acidic
lasting stability to improve the kinetic energy of electrolyte environments.29Theelectrocatalyst’seffectivenessinanalkaline
decomposition is critical for potential implementation and environment is controlled by theoretical studies based on two
7311 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
Figure1.Differentmechanismsonthesurfaceofthecatalystinacidicandalkalineenvironments.
Figure2.Schematicillustrationofthe(a)roleofthecatalystinreducingtheactivationenergybarrierinthereaction;(b)performanceevaluationitems
oftheelectrocatalyst,includingactivityintermsofoverpotential,Tafelslope,andexchangecurrentdensity;(c)performanceevaluationitemsofthe
electrocatalyst,includingstabilityintermsofcurrentandpotential/timecurves.
factors:waterdissociationandthenhydrogen-bondingenergy. watermolecule,calledtheVolmerpathway.Then,theTafelor
Each electrode with a higher ability to dissociate the water Hirovskypathcontinuestoproducehydrogen.31
moleculeandabettercapabilitytobondtoproduceahydrogen Three fundamental phases, one chemical and two electro-
atom can therefore be a better electrocatalyst for the HER chemical, make up the electrocatalytic evolution of H on the
2
processinanalkalineenvironment.30AsshowninFigure1,an electrode surface in an alkaline solution. The first stage is the
electrocatalytic reaction occurring in acidic and alkaline electrochemical separation of water to generate a hydrogen
environments follows different mechanisms. In an acidic molecule,whichisadsorbedonthesurfaceoftheelectrodevia
environment, the mechanism is performed by combining the theVolmerreaction.Thenextstepisanelectrochemicalprocess
electrolyte’sprotonandoneelectronfromtheelectrodesurface, forthehydrogenadsorbedtoformH ,knownastheHeyrovsky
2
whichisexpressedastheVolmerpath.ThenextpathistheTafel reaction,orchemicalreaction,knownastheTafelreaction.
path, which is formed by the combination of hydrogen atoms It should be noted that the Tafel slope values illustrate the
withneighboringatoms.TheHeyrovskypathisthelatterpath, HERprocessmechanismbydescribingthepotentialdifference
which consists of combining one electron from the electrode necessarytoraiseorreducethecurrentdensityby10×.Howthe
surface and another proton from the solution (electrolyte). In current is produced in response to the change of potential
alkaline environments, protons are no longer present in applied to the electrode is represented by the Tafel slope.
electrolytes. Thus, the mechanism begins with dissociating a Accordingly,lessoverpotentialisrequiredtoobtainhighcurrent
7312 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
Figure3.(a)Volcano-typedependencebetweentheexchangecurrentdensityandmetal−hydride(M−H)bondstrength.Datatakenfromref41.(b)
Exchangecurrentdensities,log(i),onmonometallicsurfacesplottedasafunctionofthecalculatedHBE.Theisfornon-Ptmetalswereobtainedby
0 0
extrapolationoftheTafelplotsbetween−1and−5mAcm−2disktothereversiblepotentialoftheHERandthennormalizationbytheESAsofthese
metalsurfaces.Datatakenfromref38.(c)Avolcanoplotcontainingmeasuredj plottedversusthecomputedΔG atequilibriumpotentialinacidic
0 H
conditions.Datatakenfromref39.(d)StandardfreeenergydiagramfortheVolmer−HeyrovskyrouteHERunderdifferentpotentials.Datataken
fromref39.
atalowerTafelslope(mV/decade).Ingeneral,duetothehigh results against theoretical predictions with faradaic efficiency
overpotential of hydrogen, significant electrical energy is andturnoverfrequency.33
required to perform the whole process. Therefore, reducing The total reaction rate is determined by the free energy of
thecathodicoverpotentialisoneofthechallengesinmakingthis hydrogenadsorption(ΔG H ).Ifthehydrogenmoleculeattaches
process economical. The best way to minimize the cathodic poorly to the surface of the catalyst, the Volmer step
overpotential is to use optimized electrocatalysts such as Pt at (adsorption) will slow down the total reaction rate. However,
the cathode to perform the HER. An acidic medium has less if the bond between the catalyst surface and the hydrogen is
overpotentialthananalkalineenvironment.However,thehigh stronger than usual, the desorption is slow, meaning that the
Heyrovsky/Tafelphaselimitsthevelocity.Therefore,ΔG ≈0
cost of membranes and stable electrocatalysts in an acid H*
is a required (but inadequate) prerequisite for an active HER
corrosive environment is one of the disadvantages of this
medium.16,32 catalyst.Withtheseexplanations,itcanbeconcludedthatoneof
thecharacteristicsofaneffectivecatalystisthatthemiddlebond
2.3.RateofReaction.Athermodynamicpotentialof1.23V
ofthereactionisneithertoostrongnortooweak.34,35
at 25 °C has been calculated for the electrochemical water-
2.4. Pseudocapacitance. In the HER process, hydrogen
splitting reaction (1 atm). In this reaction, which is an uphill
mustbeadsorbedonthesurfaceoftheelectrocatalystinthefirst
reaction,alargekineticbarriermustbeovercomeinadditionto
step.Inthenextstep,theabsorbedhydrogenmustbeseparated
being expressed by a positive value of G (Gibbs free energy).
fromtheelectrocatalystsurfaceandreturnedirreversiblytothe
Figure 2a demonstrates that catalysts are essential in reducing
electrolyte. This electrocatalyst pseudocapacitive characteristic
thekineticbarrier.Thisreactionnecessitatesagreaterpotential
is critical to HER performance. In hydrogen adsorption,
than the thermodynamic potential to overcome the kinetic
practicallyallHERelectrocatalystsareexcellentpseudocapaci-
obstacle (1.23 V). The performance of a catalyst is evaluated
tors. In order to desorb all of the hydrogen absorbed, a good
based on critical parameters such as activity, stability, and pseudocapacitor must be highly efficient. Therefore, studying
efficiency. The Tafel slope and overpotential can show the pseudocapacitiveperformancebeforetheHERpotentialoffers
activityofthecatalystsandthedensityoftheexchangecurrent vital information on electrocatalyst efficiency. The optimal
derivedfrompolarizationcurves(Figure2b).Overpotentialisa pseudocapacitiveperformance,whichistypifiedbyarectangular
fundamental description for evaluating the activity of electro- shapeincyclicvoltammetry(CV),issignificantlymoreclosely
catalysts.Overpotentialchangesandcurrentflowovertimeare relatedtoHERelectrocatalyticactivity.36
indicators of stability (Figure 2c). The efficiency of an 2.5. Volcano Plots. As stated in the previous sections,
electrocatalyst can be evaluated by comparing experimental theoretical simulations prove that HER activity is closely
7313 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
connected to hydrogen adsorption (H ) and that the free effectsarecalculatedusingtheratiooftherateconstantsoftwo
ads
energyofhydrogenadsorption(ΔG )canaccuratelycharacter- isotopicallysubstitutedreactionsinwhichthedifferenceinmass
H
ize hydrogen evolution. Also, the moderate amount of isnotbetweenatomsinvolvedintherate-determiningstepbut
hydrogen-bonding energy in the HER process is of great betweenatomsinvolvedintheequilibriumconstant.Chemical
advantage.Thevolcanocurve,asillustratedinFigures3aand3b, reactionscanbestudiedusingaKIE.Itispossibletousethemto
can compare the behaviors of various metals in acidic and identify the rate-determining step, to determine the energy of
alkalineenvironments.37,38Ptisthesuperiorelectrocatalystfor thetransitionstate,andtostudythemechanismofreactionsthat
HERinbothmediums,asdemonstratedintheplots,becauseit are difficult to study using other methods. An electron is
has the appropriate hydrogen adsorption energy and hence transferred from the electrode to a hydrogen ion in the
providesthelargestexchangecurrentdensity.Anacidicmedium electrolyte as part of the HER process. As an electrolyte, both
has less overpotential than an alkaline environment. Never- H O and D O have been used to study the KIE of the HER.
2 2
theless, it is less used due to the corrosion of electrocatalysts. WhenD OisusedinsteadofH Ointhesestudies,therateofthe
2 2
Also, the alkaline environment is critical due to non-noble reaction is approximately 6 times faster. Since the D+ ion is
electrocatalysts. Alkaline water splitting is an excellent way to heavierthantheH+ion,itmovesthroughtheelectrolytemore
produce pure hydrogen with high purity. This technology is slowly.BasedontheKIEfortheHER,thefollowingmechanism
environmentallyfriendlyanddoesnotemitanycarbondioxide. canbeproposed:
PtandPt-basedalloysperformverywellintheHERduetotheir (1) An electron is transferred from the electrode to a
lowactivationoverpotential.Asmentioned,HERactivityisvery hydrogenionintheelectrolyte,formingahydroniumion.
oftenlowerinalkalinemediathaninacidicconditions.Thisis
(2) The hydronium ion dissociates into a proton and water
primarily due to the slowing down of the water dissociation
molecule.
phase.However,alkalineelectrolysisispreferredonanindustrial
(3) The proton tunnels through the water molecule and
scale.Itiscriticaltoconsiderthebondingofhydrogenspecies
attacks the surface of the electrode, forming a hydrogen
and the water dissociation potential when designing electro-
atom.
catalysts with high alkaline HER performance. According to
(4) The hydrogen atom desorbs from the surface of the
Figure3candFigure3d,39boththethermodynamicinfluenceof
electrode,forminghydrogengas.
ΔG and the hydrolysis kinetics affect the progress of the
H
reaction.ThevolcanicplotpredictsthatmetalssuchasPGMs A KIE indicates that an electron is transferred from the
electrodetoahydrogenionintheelectrolytetodeterminethe
areontopofthevolcanoplotwiththeidealHbindingenergy
rateofthereaction.Theisotopeeffectismuchlargerforthisstep
and show the highest activity. Similar to the acidic media, a
thanforanyoftheothersteps.42
volcanoplotcandescribetherelationshipbetweenHbonding
energyvaluesandHERexchangecurrentdensityatalkalinepH.
3. HERELECTROCATALYSTSREQUIREMENTS
This description can be defended by experimental studies and
density-functionaltheory(DFT).40 Thedisparitybetweentheelectricalpotentialsofeachelectrode
2.6.KineticIsotopeEffect(KIE).Animportantmethodfor determines the potential of an electrochemical cell. It is
studyingchemicalreactionsisthekineticisotopeeffect(KIE). impossible to determine the electrical potential of a single
Thistheoryisbasedontheobservationthattherateofareaction electrode;forthispurpose,wecansetanelectrodetozeroand
canvarywithatommass.Aparticle’smassaffectstheenergyof useitasareference.Thisselectedelectrodeiscalledthestandard
its vibrational and rotational states, which, in turn, affects the hydrogen electrode (SHE). This electrode is a reference for
probability of tunneling. Tunneling is a quantum mechanical measuringtheactivitypotentialofdifferentmaterialsrelativeto
process that allows particles to pass through potential barriers eachother.Thereductionhalf-reactionselectedforreferenceis
wit P h r o im ut ar h y a a v n in d g s e e n co o n u d gh ary en K e I r E g s y a t r o e o th v e er t c w o o m m e a t i h n e t m yp . es.Thereisa 2H+(aq, 1M) + 2e F H 2 (g, 1atm) E°= 0V (4)
primaryKIEwhenthedifferenceinmassonlyexistsbetweenthe Intheaboverelationship,E°standsforthestandardreduction
atoms involved in the rate-determining step between two potential (at a standard temperature of 25 °C and pressure, 1
isotopicallysubstitutedreactants.AsecondaryKIEistheratioof atm, 1 M for solution), and at all temperatures the voltage is
the rates of reaction between two isotopically substituted defined as zero (0 V vs RHE). According to theoretical
reactants,wherethemassdifferenceisnotbetweentheatoms.A calculations, the potential of the cell along the entire water-
KIE can be used to identify the rate-determining step in a splitting path is 1.23 V.43 This reduces efficiency and kinetics.
reaction.IfaprimaryKIEisobserved,thentherate-determining Designing and utilizing highly efficient catalysts to reduce the
step must involve breaking or forming a bond between the overpotentialforOERandHERtoproduceH andO isone
2 2
isotopicallysubstitutedatoms.Conversely,ifasecondaryKIEis efficientwaytodothis.Itiscrucialtocomprehendthecriteria
observed,the rate-determining step must not involvebreaking used to assess and contrast the electrocatalytic activity of
or forming a bond between the isotopically substitutedatoms. particular materials and to establish test procedures. Unfortu-
By providing information about the transition state’s energy, nately, no coordinated effort has been made to develop an
KIEscanalsobeusedtostudythemechanismofareaction.In integrated test protocol or a way to present quantitative
the case of a primary KIE, the transition state energy for the electrocatalytic data. In studies, the performance of electro-
lighter isotope must be lower than for the heavier isotope. In catalystsisusuallyevaluatedwiththefollowingparameters.44
contrast,ifasecondaryKIEisobserved,thenbothisotopesmust 3.1.Overpotential,TafelSlope,andExchangeCurrent
havethesameenergyofthetransitionstate.Asidefromprimary Density. The overpotential (η) component is a fundamental
and secondary KIEs, equilibrium isotope effects and kinetic descriptor for assessing the electrocatalysts’ behavior, which is
secondaryisotopeeffectsarealsotypesofKIEs.Inequilibrium the difference between the theoretical half-reaction reduction
isotope effects, the equilibrium constants of two isotopically potential and the actual cell potential. Suitable electrocatalysts
substituted reactions are compared. Kinetic secondary isotope forHERshouldhaveasmalloverpotentialbecausetheamount
7314 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
of low overpotential is directly related to the high electro- indicating the area of the electrode material available to the
catalyticactivity.Watersplittingoccursatacellpotentialof1.23 electrolyte.Ithasbeenproventhatitischallengingtomeasure
V(0VforHERand1.23VfortheOER).BothHERandOER the electrochemically active surface of any material as an
processes need additional potential, mainly from the intrinsic electrode.Thissurfaceisusedforchargetransferand/orstorage
activation obstacles present. The applied potential must be in electrochemical cells (galvanic/electrolytic). The electrode
increased for the reaction to occur.45,46 Usually, the over- surface may be expanded using a variety of techniques. These
potentialvaluecorrespondstothecurrentdensitysuchas10mA include using nanostructures, cyclic voltammetry (CV), and
cm−2(η=10)and/or100mAcm−2(η=100). linearsweepvoltammetry(LSV).51
AnotherapproachformeasuringHERelectrocatalystactivity 3.3.FaradaicEfficiency.Faradayefficiency(alsoknownas
istocalculateTafelparameters,thevaluesofwhicharetypically current efficiency) is another parameter used to assess the
determinedbyexaminingthepolarizationcurveasalogarithmic activityoftheHERelectrocatalyst.Inplaceofthesidereaction,
current density diagram (log(j)) vs iR-compensated over- faradaic efficiency (FE) calculates the amount of charges
potential(η).TheTafelsloperepresentsthekineticrelationship (electrons) in the desired reaction. In the HER process, FE is
between the overpotential and the current density in the the ratio of experimentally identified H compared to the
2
electrocatalyst,whichisexpressedbyeq5: theoretical quantity H . This ratio of experimental H to
2 2
theoretical H is calculated using a current density based on
= a + b·log|j|, where (5) 2
100%faradaicoutput.Thefaradaicefficiencyiscalculatedunder
two parameters: the total amount of hydrogen produced nH
2.303·RT 2
a = log(j ) (mol)andthetotalamountofchargeQ(C)transferredfromthe
F 0 (6)
cellusingeq7.Thetotalchargeisdeterminedbyintegratingthe
current, and the total amount of hydrogen generated is
2.303·RT
b = determined by using gas chromatography (GC) or the water
F (7) displacementmethod.52
In this equation, η is the overpotential, and j is the current Faradaicefficiency = nH 2 /(Q/2F) (8)
density.
The Tafel slope (b) and the exchange current density j are FistheFaradayconstant,≅96500C/mol.
0
determined by obtaining the current at a potential of zero. As 3.4.TurnoverFrequency.Theturnoverfrequency(TOF)
stated,theoverpotentialisthedifferenceamongtheelectrodes’ of a catalytic center quantifies its particular activity by the
potentialundertheequilibriumpotential(E)andcurrentload numberofreactantstransformedtothechosenproductperunit
r
(E). According to eq 5, the Tafel slope (b) is an intensive time.TheamountofTOFforHERandOERiscalculatedbased
j
quantityindependentofthesurfaceareaofthecatalyst,andits onthefollowingequations:
valueisdefinedbytherate-determiningstageanditslocationin
TOFHER = JA/2nF (9)
the reaction process. In contrast, j is a large quantity and
0
depends on the surface area of the catalyst and indicates easy TOFOER = JA/4nF (10)
electron transfer with small activation energy. An active
electrocatalyst should have a low Tafel slope and a large j . A whereArepresentstheareaoftheworkingelectrodeandJisthe
0
lowerTafelslopesuggestsalargeincreaseincurrentdensityasa currentdensity;thenumber2representstheelectronsforH /
2
function of overpotential variation (i.e., the kinetics of the mol,andthenumber4representstheelectronsforO /mol;also,
2
electrocatalyticreactionarefaster).47,48 nembodiesthemolenumberofactivesites,andFistheFaraday
The exchange current density ( j ) can be defined as the constant.
0
readiness of the electrode to continue the electrochemical In experiments, measuring TOF is not easy for most solid-
reaction,so thehighertheexchangecurrent density,themore statecatalysts.Inthiscase,thecatalyst’ssurfaceatomsarenot
active the electrode surface. It describes the intrinsic charge catalytically active or uniformly available. A presence of HER
transfer exchange current density under an equilibrium state. bubbles on the electrode surface causes an excessive rise in
Increased exchange current densities indicate higher charge potential and disturbs the active surface. Admittedly, TOF
transferratesandbetterreactionprogress.49Therefore,itcanbe valuescannotprovidemuchaccuracy,buttheycanstillassistin
concluded that for a better electrocatalyst, a higher exchange linkingcatalystactivity.53
currentdensityandalowerTafelslopeareexpected.Thescan 3.5. Hydrogen-Bonding Energy. In the hydrogen
rate used to obtain the potentiodynamic polarization curve evolution reaction (HER), an electrochemical process that
shouldnotbeoverlookedbecausethisparameterstronglyaffects generateshydrogengasfromwatersplitting,hydrogen-bonding
the values obtained for the current density and Tafel slope. energy (HBE) plays a crucial role. Hydrogen bond energy
Potentiostatic method curves or recorded polarization curves describes the strength of hydrogen atoms’ interaction with
shouldthus be assessed at theslowest scanrate available. The neighboring atoms, usually oxygen atoms in water or on the
exchangecurrentdensity(j )indicatestheintrinsicinteractions catalystsurface.Theinteractionaffectstheoverallkineticsofthe
0
andchargetransferactivitybetweentheelectrocatalystandthe HER,affectingtherateofhydrogenevolutionandthestabilityof
reactant. High exchange current density usually reflects the adsorbed hydrogen species. Adsorption of hydrogen inter-
excellent performance of the HER reaction electrocatalyst. mediates on the catalyst surface is made easier by a strong
However, it should be noted that obtaining direct exchange hydrogen bond between hydrogen atoms and the catalyst
current density is challenging, and we can only get the total surface. If the HBE is too strong, it can prevent hydrogen
currentdensityfromtheTafelequationexperiments.50 molecules from desorbing, reducing hydrogen evolution
3.2.ElectrochemicallyActiveSurfaceArea(ECSA).The efficiency. In order to achieve efficient and sustainable HER,
electrodematerial’selectrochemicalsurfacearea(ECSA)isone an optimal HBE must be in place. Numerous techniques have
of the fundamental phenomena in selecting electrocatalysts, beenusedtostudytheeffectsofHBEonHERactivity,including
7315 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
Figure4.Three-electrodesystemwithworkingelectrodes,counters,andreferenceelectrodes.
theoretical calculations, spectroscopic studies, and electro- HBEandtailoringthecatalystsurfaceandpreparationmethods
chemical measurements. Catalysts with a moderate HBE accordingly.Hydrogenproductiontechnologiesrequireefficient
typically exhibit higher HER activity than those with a too HERcatalystsforadvancement.OptimizingHBEcanenhance
weakortoostrongHBE,accordingtothesestudies.Amoderate theperformanceofHERcatalysts,makingthemmoresuitable
HBE allows for efficient electron transfer and hydrogen forpracticalhydrogenproductionapplications,suchasfuelcells
desorptionwithouthinderinghydrogenintermediateformation. and hydrogen storage. The hydrogen bonding energy (HBE)
HERactivityisalsoaffectedbythedistributionofHBEsiteson determines the stability of adsorbed hydrogen species, the
thecatalystsurfaceinadditiontothestrengthoftheHBE.The desorptionofhydrogenmolecules,andtheoverallefficiencyof
uniform distribution of HBE sites promotes the formation of hydrogenevolutionreactions(HER).TodevelopefficientHER
stable intermediates and efficient hydrogen evolution by catalysts and realize the potential of sustainable hydrogen
providinghydrogenatomswithsuitablebindingsites.Inorder productiontechnologies,itiscrucialtounderstandandoptimize
to develop efficient HER catalysts, it is essential to optimize HBE.
HBE. Researchers can design catalysts with the desired HBE 3.6.Stability.Anotherimportantparameterforchoosingthe
properties to achieve high HER rates and stability by suitable HER electrocatalyst is stability. There are two
understandingtherelationshipbetweenHBEandHERactivity. approaches to assess the stability factor. One is LSV or CV;
The development of sustainable hydrogen production tech- theotherispotentiostaticorgalvanostaticelectrolysisbylong-
nologiesdependsonthis.InordertoachieveefficientHER,an termchronopotentiometric(CP)orchronoamperometric(CA)
optimal HBE is necessary. Catalysts with a moderate HBE tests. This voltammetric method is utilized to compare the
typically exhibit higher HER activity than those with either a overpotentialmodifications,beforeandafteracertainperiodof
weakorastrongHBE.AmoderateHBEpromotestheoverall cycles for 1000−10000 cyclic voltammograms at a scan rate
HER process by stabilizing adsorbed hydrogen species and suchas5−50mVs−1.
facilitatingtheirdesorption. InaCVcycle,thehigherthenumberofcycles,thehigherthe
Relationship between HBE and HER Activity. A complex accuracy,andthebetteritcanbetoreachafewthousandcycles
relationship exists between the strength of the HBE and the byahighpotentiallimitof upto0 VvsRHE.Changes inthe
activityoftheHER.StrongHBEscanindeedstabilizeadsorbed parametersofthepolarizationcurveaswellasoverpotential(ata
hydrogenspecies,buttheycanalsohinderhydrogendesorption specificcurrentdensity)areevaluatedbeforeandaftertheCV
if they are too strong. Due to the strong HBE, hydrogen cycletomeasurestability.54,55Thelessertherateofchange,the
moleculescannotbreakawayfromthecatalystsurface.Thus,the greater the material’s stability. It is widely acknowledged that
catalystbecomessaturatedwithhydrogenatoms,andtheoverall assessingacatalyst’slong-termstabilityissufficientforaround
HERratedecreases. 12 h. However, it is strongly advised that the measures be
Factors Affecting HBE. There are several factors that can
evaluatedforatleast240hinorderforthestabilityresultstobe
affecttheHBEbetweenhydrogenatomsandthecatalystsurface,
at least somewhat industrially defensible. An HER electro-
suchasthefollowing:
catalystmustbeusableforseveralthousandhourstobereadyfor
(1) Nature of the catalyst surface: HBE can be significantly useonalargescale.Acceleratedexperimentsusuallylastonlya
affected by the type of metal or material used for the few hours at best. Such expedited testing may not give exact
catalyst surface. Catalysts containing a high density of operational information for industrial-scale assessment. How-
oxygen-containinggroups,suchashydroxidesandoxides, ever,thistimeisclearlyrestrictedfromanindustrialviewpoint,
tendtoexhibitstrongerHBEthancatalystscontaininga and further testing is required before larger-scale implementa-
lowerdensity.
tion.56,57
3.7. Electrochemical Methods (Three-Electrode Cell).
(2) Preparation methods: A catalyst’s preparation method
In the HER process, a rotating disk work electrode (RDE) is
can also affect its HBE. The formation of HBE is more
suggested to obtain accurate experimental data. With high
likely to occur in catalysts prepared using methods that
accuracy,thiselectrodecanquantifythemasstransferrateand
introducedefectsorroughnessintotheirsurfaces.
reactionkineticswell.TheRDEisaworkingelectrodeusedin
(3) Electrolytecomposition:HBEcanalsobeaffectedbythe
three-electrode systems for voltammetry of electrochemical
electrolyte composition. Electrolytes with higher pH
studies when examining the reaction mechanisms of redox
values, for example, tend to form stronger HBE than chemistry,amongotherchemicalphenomena.58Theelectrode
electrolyteswithlowerpHvalues.
isconnectedtoanelectricmotorwithexcellentcontroloverthe
Optimizing HBE and Impact on Sustainable Hydrogen rotationspeedoftheelectrode.Theelectroderotatesduringthe
Production. Developing efficient HER catalysts requires testandinducesafluxofanalytetotheelectrodedependingon
optimizingHBE.ScientistscandesigncatalystswithhighHER theappliedvoltage.Thestructureofthiselectrodeconsistsofa
rates and stability by understanding the factors that influence conductive disk made of a noble metal or glassy carbon
7316 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
surroundedbyanonconductivematerialsuchasapolymeroran (2) Low-cost transition metal-based materials without pre-
inertresin.AccordingtoFigure4,inanelectrochemicalsystem, ciousmetals
theworkingelectrode(WE)isoftenusedinconjunctionwitha
(3) MOF-derivedmaterial-basedelectrocatalysts
counter electrode (CE) and a reference electrode (RE) in a
three-electrodesystem.54,59
Today, efforts are focused on developing low-cost metal-
3.8. Measurement Pitfalls and Data Interpretation in
based electrocatalysts with high stability and performance and
HERStudies.Electrochemicalmeasurementsplayacrucialrole
are considered an essential and promising candidate for the
instudyingtheHERandevaluatingtheperformanceofcatalysts. industrialscale.
However, there are several challenges and pitfalls that 4.1. Noble Metal-Based Electrocatalysts. The electro-
researchers may encounter during these measurements, which catalyticperformanceofnoblemetals,suchasPtgroupmetals
canaffecttheaccuracyandreliabilityoftheobtaineddata.Inthis (PGMs, including Pt, Pd, Rh, Ru, and Ir), is appealing for
section, we summarize some common pitfalls and provide HER.60TheVolcanodiagramshowsthatthesematerialsareat
guidanceforaddressingthem. the top of the curve. However, due to their scarcity and high
ElectrodeFoulingandSurfaceContamination.Oneofthe price, the commercial application of these noble metal
majorchallengesinHERmeasurementsiselectrodefoulingand electrocatalysts is constrained.61 Rational design of catalysts
surface contamination. Over time, the electrode surface can withminimalnoblemetalloadandhighusageofothermetalsis
become covered with reaction intermediates or byproducts, crucialtoovercomingthisdifficulty.62ThetrendofPtactivityis
leading to altered electrochemical behavior and inaccurate (111) < (100) < (110) according to the single-crystal aspects
measurements. To mitigate this issue, careful electrode withalowPtindexintheHERprocess.Thejustificationforthis
preparation, regular cleaning, and appropriate experimental trend can be attributed to the presence of H (overpotential
opd
conditions should be employed. Techniques such as cyclic deposition, weakly adsorbed state) reaction, which is most
voltammetry and electrochemical surface cleaning can help prevalentatlevel(110).Therefore,theactivityofthePtsurface
removeadsorbedspeciesandrestoretheelectrodesurface. (110)intheroleofelectrocatalystcanbegreaterthanthatofthe
ElectrolyteEffects.Thechoiceofelectrolytecansignificantly othertwosurfaces.63Therefore,modificationandoptimization
influence HER measurements. Different electrolytes can have of geometric parameters of noble metal-based electrocatalysts
varying pH, ionic strength, and composition, resulting in whilemaintainingactivityhavebeeninvestigated.64Theactivity
different reaction kinetics and performance of catalysts. It is of Pt electrocatalysts in an alkaline environment is typically
crucial to carefully select an electrolyte that is suitable for the lower than in an acidic environment as a benchmark. This is
specific HER system under investigation. Additionally, under- becausethedissociationofwateratthePtsurfaceisinefficient,
standing the effects of electrolyte composition on the reaction leadingtothiselectrocatalyst’sweakactivityintheelectrolyte.Pt
mechanism and kinetics is essential for accurate data coupling with water dissociation promoters is a popular
interpretation. technique for improving the electrocatalytic capabilities of
Proper Data Analysis Techniques. Interpreting electro- HERinanalkalineenvironmenttocompensateforthis.65The
chemical data accurately is crucial for understanding the optimization of geometric parameters and efficient modifica-
performanceofHERcatalysts.Commonpitfallsindataanalysis tionsinstructurewhilepreservingelectrocatalyticactivityhave
includeincorrectbaselinesubtraction,improperfittingmodels, beenthoroughlyexploredasaresultoftherightdeploymentof
andoverlookingpotentialartifacts.Researchersshouldcarefully Pt-based electrocatalysts. Loading Pt nanoparticles on high-
selectappropriateanalysistechniques,suchasTafelanalysisor surface carbon is a simple and cost-effective technique to
electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, and ensure proper generateactiveHERelectrocatalystsforthispurpose.Themost
data processing and fitting procedures. It is also important to common method is carbon black with 20% by weight of
consider potential artifacts, such as capacitive currents or platinumputonit(Pt/C),whichmaygenerateoneofthelowest
double-layerchargingeffects,andaccountfortheminthedata overpotentials (46 mV at 10 mA cm−2) in alkaline circum-
analysis. stances.Pt/Ccatalystsarefrequentlyutilizedasastandardfor
By being aware of these pitfalls and employing appropriate catalystscreatedfortheHERreactionbecauseoftheirsuperior
measures,researcherscanimprovetheaccuracyandreliabilityof outcomes and performance. Due to its lower cost and similar
their electrochemical measurements and data interpretation. electronic structures, Ru is always considered a potential
Addressing these challenges is essential for advancing our candidate to replace Pt for water electrolysis. However,
understanding of HER catalysts and developing efficient
dissolutionandstabilityproblemsmustbethoughtout.45,66
hydrogen production technologies. Overall, by summarizing The element titanium is also widely used in electrocatalytic
the common pitfalls and providing practical guidance for reactions. Titanium dioxide (TiO 2 ) is a transition metal oxide
measurementanddatainterpretation,researcherscannavigate thathasbeenextensivelystudiedforitspotentialapplicationin
throughthechallengesinherentinHERstudiesandobtainmore the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). However, the tradi-
tional crystalline TiO is generally considered as an inactive
accurateandreliableresults. 2
materialforHERwithdisappointingperformance.Thisisdueto
its poor electrical conductivity and unfavorable hydrogen
4. HERELECTROCATALYSTS
intermediates (H ) adsorption/desorption capability. In
ads
Giventhematerialsinvestigatedascandidateelectrocatalystsfor order to activate TiO for HER, theoretical calculations and
2
HER in the water-splitting process, a coherent method for experimental studies have been carried out to investigate the
presentation and comparison is critical.56,58 The approach effect of structural and electronic properties on the hydrogen
employedinthisstudyistocategorizematerialsintothreemajor adsorption free energy (ΔG ). The results suggest that the
H*
groups: hydrogen adsorption free energy could be optimized through
tuning the structural and electronic properties of TiO . For
(1) Noblemetalswithcompoundsandalloys 2
example, amorphous TiO with disordered atom arrangement
2
7317 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
Figure5.(a)SchematicillustrationoftheprocessstepsforformingRu@MWCNTcatalyst;(b,c)electrochemicalHERperformanceoftheRu@
MWCNTandPt/Ccatalysts;polarizationcurvesandcorrespondingTafelplotsinN-saturated0.5Maq.HSO solutionand1.0Maq.KOH
2 2 4
solution.Scanrate:5mVs−1;(d)comparisonofelectrochemicalHER;thepolarizationcurveswererecordedbeforeandafter10000CVpotential
cycles.Datatakenfromref68.
can offer a larger amount of catalytic active sites than their favorableinfluenceonthematerial’scatalyticactivity.SomePt-
crystallinecounterparts.67 based alloys can be made with Pt−M crystalline nanoparticles
Kweonetal.68describedaninexpensiveandsimpleapproach (M = Co, Fe, Cu, Ru, Au). In this method, we substitute
for producing homogeneous ruthenium (Ru) nanoparticles as inexpensive metals for Pt, intending to increase synergy and
an effective HER electrocatalyst by depositing Ru on multi- electrocatalyticperformance.Therearetwokeyexplanationsfor
walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) (Figure 5a). According the improved performance of these materials over commercial
to Figure 5b and Figure 5c, the synthesized electrocatalyst Pt nanoparticle-based catalysts. The first explanation is the “
outperformscommercialPt/Cwithlowoverpotentialsof13and effectofligand”,whichrelatestotheelectroniccharacteristicsof
17mVat10mAcm−2in0.5Maq.H SO and1.0Maq.KOH, onetransitionmetal’sactivesitesclosetoanothermetal’sactive
2 4
respectively.Furthermore,thecatalysthasexceptionalstability sites.Anotherreasonisthe“effectoflatticestrain”onthePt−Pt
inbothmedia,revealingnearlyzeroduringcycling(Figure5d). bond distance because of the mixture of other metals, which
Inthisstudy,DTFcalculationsindicatethatRu−Cbondingis causeschangesinthePtmetal’sd-bondcenter.71Thisfactorcan
themostlikelyeffectiveareafortheHER. bechangedbycombiningPtwithothermetalsinthenetworkto
In electrocatalysts, surface properties play a decisive role in provide the best catalyst properties. These findings were
intrinsic activity and adaptability. Bao et al.69 demonstrated a confirmed by other research groups.72 The ability to modify
simple approach for thermally doping Ru/C with atomically the structure on the surface is essential for enhancing
scattered cobalt atoms. The generated amorphous shell electrocatalytic activity among various noble metal-based
containing Ru−Co sites on the Ru/C electrocatalyst by a electrocatalysts for HER. Doping noble metal-based materials
surface-engineering approach considerably increased HER withothermetalcomponentshasrecentlybeendiscoveredtobe
activity and stability in this study. Similar to Pt/C but another efficient method of increasing the electrocatalytic
considerably better, the Co Ru@Ru/CNx electrocatalyst activity of HER while minimizing the quantity of noble metal
1
displayed an overpotential of 30 mV at 10 mA cm−2. This utilized. Electrochemical analysis of HER showedthat doping,
excellentinformationshowsthatthisobtainedelectrocatalystis especially the combination of S and N in the noble metal,
oneofthebestHERcatalystsforthealkalineenvironmentthat improves the electrocatalytic behavior and increases the
hasbeenproposedsofar.Theotherwaytoreducetheloadingof stability. Naveen et al.73 reported a Pd nanoparticles (NPs)
noble metals is to alloy them with inexpensive metals.70 The electrocatalyst supported on a carbon sphere nanoarchitecture
idealmethodistoutilizeoneormoremetalsthathaveanextra dopedwithsulfur(S)andnitrogen(N)atoms(PdSNC),which
7318 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
is designed by using a palladium−rubeanic acid (Pd−RA) According to the study, replacing noble metals with a
coordinationpolymerasaprecursor,whichwasthencalcinedof combination of transition metals and nonmetal elements (S,
materials for the HER electrocatalyst. Doping S and N into Se, N, C, andP) has emerged asa potential alternative. Metal
carbon structures increased the electronic structure and sulfides, metal selenides, metal nitrides, metal carbides, and
strengthened the affinity of the PdNPs in this study, revealing metalphosphidesmightbementionedinthisgroupoftransition
improvedelectrochemicalperformanceoftheelectrocatalyst.By metal-based electrocatalysts with high activity, stability, and
modulating the electronic structure and stabilizing Pd nano- affordable pricing.100 The following sections summarize the
particles, the placement of dual heteroatoms (S and N) in most advanced electrocatalysts selected based on the most
carbon tissue enhanced stable electrocatalytic activity as an common materials and compare each group with Pt-based
alternative to expensive commercial Pt/C. The modified electrocatalysts.101 Mn, Fe, Co, and Ni are some of the most
PdSNC demonstrated a current of 10 mA cm−2 at 0.030 V, widely used non-noble metal electrocatalysts for HER. As an
whichissignificantlyhigherthanPd/CandcomparabletoPt/C. affordable metal with widespread industrial application and
Thisstrategyusedbyresearchers(dopingandPd/Cformation)
strongHERactivity,takeFeasanexample(at10mAcm−2,the
is a promising approach to designing carbon/noble metal
overpotentialcanreachthelowestvalueofabout260mV).102
Fe is aninexpensive metalthat isoftenemployed inindustrial
composites with heteroatoms to enhance electrocatalytic
settings and has comparatively high HER activity. Pure Fe is
performance. In electrocatalysts, surface properties play a
decisive role in intrinsic activity and adaptability.74 Noble employed as a comparison material on occasion, and it can
producediversefindingsdependingonthepreparationprocess,
metalsprovideexceptionalbenefitsforwater-splittingprocesses,
surfacearea,morphology,orshape.103,104Unfortunately,there
but their high price and scarcity remain substantial barriers to
arenotmanystudiesdoneonpureironasacathodematerial.
broad industrial growth. It should also be mentioned that the
One factor might be the low stability of Fe alone in high-
usage of noble metals is required for many important
applications.35,75 As a result, it is possible to infer that the temperature,alkalineconditions.Thisinstabilityisincreasedin
theno-currentmodewhentheelectrolysisisswitchedoff.The
mostpromisingstrategy,particularlyforlarge-scaleapplications,
lowstabilityandefficiencyofFecathodesunderwater-splitting
is the creation of electrocatalysts based on cheap and readily
conditions canbereduced byalloyingthemwith one or more
available materials. The HER performances of PGM-free
metals.104,105 These objective characteristics are heavily
catalystsaresummarizedinTable2.
influencedbythekindofcoalloyedmetal,overallcomposition,
4.2. Non-Noble Metal-Based Electrocatalysts. As
andpreparationtechnique.Steelmaterialshavehistoricallybeen
summarized in the previous chapter, non-noble metal-based
utilized as dual-function catalysts in overall water splitting,
electrocatalysts are the only viable option for the future
despitethefactthattheircatalyticactivity,particularlyforHER,
developmentoflarge-scalewatersplittingforenergyconversion.
is significantly inferior to that of the most sophisticated
catalysts.106Surfacemodificationappearstobeaviablemethod
Table2.HERPerformanceSummaryofPGM-freeMaterials
for dramatically increasing the activity of steel-based materi-
Catalysts als.107,108 In one study, Kim et al.108 studied a self-activated
nanoporousanodicstainlesssteelelectrodewithbettercatalytic
Tafelslope η(mVvsRHE)for performanceforthehydrogenevolutionreaction.
material structure (mVdec−1) J=10mAcm−2 refs
Etchedandanodizedstainlesssteel(EASS)iscreatedinthis
NiCoN nitride 105.2 145 76
technique by employing etched 304 stainless steel foil with an
NiN−NiMoN nitride 64 31 77
3 unevensurfaceandthenthermalannealing(650°C,ArandH
MoSe/NiSe selenide 46.9 249mVat100mA 78 2
2 2 mixture, 1 h). The synthesis method increases the electrode’s
Ni Co Se selenide 31.6 108 79
0.7 0.3 2 surfacearea,exposingalargenumberofactivesitesandoxygen
NiMoNx/C nitride 35 78mVat100mA 80
vacancies.Theimprovedmaterialdisplayedanoverpotentialof
Mo−Fe−Se− selenide 57.7 86.9 81 370 mV at10 mA cm−2, almost 100 mVless than theoriginal
CP
NiN/VN−NF nitride 47 56 82 stainless steel (466 mV). In addition, the overpotential is
3
decreasedto244mVbyself-activationafter10000LSVcycles
FeP/Fe phosphide 55 191 83
2
duetothecreationofacatalyticallyactivemetalhydroxidelayer
COP/CP phosphide 60 174 83
2
onthesurfaceoftheelectrode.Althoughsignificantprogresshas
COP phosphide 101 406 84
2
MON/NC nitride 115.7 217 85 beenmadeinthisfield,asfarasweknow,themostactivesteel-
2
FeP phosphide 37 50 86 based electrocatalysts still need to be doped with more active
VC@GC carbide 34.5 38 87 substances,suchasNi,Mo,orP,toachieveanoverpotentialof
8 7
NSs/NF only80−120mVhigherthanthatobservedwithcommercialPt/
WN/CC nitride 57.1 130 88 C electrocatalysts.109 In addition to stainless steel, the most
porousCoP
2
phosphide 67 56 89 researchediron-basedalloysaretheFe−CoandFe−Mogroups,
MoNx nitride 114 148 90 whichmaybeutilizedasbinaryalloysortocomplementanother
VMoN nitride 60 108 91 metal to produce a more complicated system. A high actual
CoNiSe
2
/NF selenide 40 87 92 surfaceareaFe−MoalloyisapotentialmaterialforHER.54−56
CoNiSe/NC selenide 66.5 100 93 4.2.1.TransitionMetalCarbides.Transitionmetalcarbides
Mo 2 C/C-900 carbide 52 114 94 (TMCs) demonstrate Pt-like properties for HER electro-
nanoMoC@GS carbide 43 124 95 catalytic activity due to the shift in the d-band center; for this
MoN nitride 120 389 96 reason,thedevelopmentoftheseelectrocatalystsasnon-noble
WN−W
2
C nitride 85 242 97 metal-basedelectrocatalystsisofgreatinterest.110GroupIVb−
NiCoPholey phosphide 57 58 98 VIbTMCsareknownastransitioncarbidesduetotheelectronic
CoP 2 /rGO phosphide 50 88 99 properties of carbon atoms occupying the metal lattice’s
7319 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
Figure6.Polarizationcurves(inset:Tafelplotsobtainedfromthepolarizationcurves),calculatedelectrochemicaldouble-layercapacitance,andη10
valuesofcorrespondingmaterialsin(a)acidicsolutionsand(b)alkalinesolutions.Datatakenfromref113.
position.111WandMoarethemostcommoncandidatesforuse tungsten carbon disrupt the active sites in the HER electro-
in TMCs, which in addition to high electrical conductivity, catalyst reaction. This is in contrast to transition metal
hydrogen adsorption properties, and d-band electron density chalcogenides in which the presence of oxygen can improve
state,createtheoptimalcompoundthatcandemonstratenear- HERperformance.Intheinteractionoftheelectrocatalystwith
Pt electrocatalytic activity for HER electrocatalysis.112 WC is water,theWCsurfacedisruptsandinactivatestheformationofa
one of the first noble metal electrocatalysts for HER electro- WO layer.114 Although this oxide layer grows at anodic
3
catalysis. The W/C ratio substantially influences the electro- potentials,itshouldnotbepresentatHERcathodicpotentials.
catalytic activity of HER in this combination. The electro- Also, its stability in anodic potentials is shallow due to the
catalytic activity of WC, like that of other compounds, is formation of an anodizing layer. Due to the synergistic effect
determinedbythenumberofactivesites,crystallinephases,and betweenWCandPt,moreattentionhasbeenfocusedonusing
nanoparticlemorphology.Lvetal.113adoptedasimpleapproach this material as a substrate for Pt electrocatalysts, although its
tocreateWC@rGOinorder toincreaseHERactivity inboth mechanism is still unknown.115 Researchers are currently
acidic and alkaline environments. In order to increase charge focusingonreducingthePtcontentofPt/WCelectrocatalysts
transfer and change the size of the WC particle in order to withlowcost,highefficiency,andgoodstabilityforHER.
achieve effective and stable HER performance, this study Mo CalsohasPt-likeelectrocatalyticactivityfortheHER.In
2
employed the efficiently conductive rGO as a support. The addition,acomparativestudyshowedthatmolybdenumcarbide
overpotentials of the synthesized electrocatalyst are about 2.5 had better electrocatalytic performance than nitride and
timessmallerthanthoseofthepristineWCtoachieve10mA boride.116 Liu et al.117 used CO as the feedstock to create a
2
cm−2insolutions(acidicandalkaline).AsshowninFigure6a self-standing MoC−Mo C catalytic electrode. High perform-
2
and 6b, the Pt-modified WC electrocatalyst with low Pt anceofthesynthesizedelectrodewithlowoverpotentialat500
accumulation(4%byweight)showsevenheightenedperform- mA cm−2 was observed in both acidic and alkaline mediums
anceoftheelectrocatalyst(Tafelslopeandη10of21mVdec−1 (256and292mV,respectively),duetoitshydrophilic porous
and54mVinsolutionofacidand28mVdec−1and61mVin surface and inherent mechanical strength, the long-lasting
solutionofalkaline)tocommercialPt/C.Theauthor’smethod lifetime of more than 2400 h, and performance at high
makes it possible to prepare environmentally friendly, temperatures (70 °C). By DFT calculations, the authors show
inexpensive,stable,andeffectiveHERelectrodes. thatthesuperiorperformanceoftheHERdiscontinuouscarbide
Itisworthnotingthatthesurfaceoftheelectrocatalystmust electrodeinbothacidicandalkalinestatesisdeterminedbythe
befreeof tungstenoxideorsimilarcompoundstoachieve the heterogeneousbondingofMoC(001)−Mo C(101)withΔG
2 H*
flawless electrocatalytic activity, as the oxygen species in −0.13eVinacid.
7320 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
Figure7.(a)SchematicIllustrationoftheformationprocessofNCMP.(b)HERpolarizationcurvesofNCMP-x(x=1,2,3,and4)andCoMoPin1
MKOH;inset:partialenlargement of(b).(c)CorrespondingTafelplots.(d)Nyquistplots ofNCMP-x(x=1, 2,3, and4)andCoMoP.(e)
CorrespondingCdlofCoMoPandNCMP-x(x=1,2,3,and4)at0.11Vvsreversiblehydrogenelectrode(RHE).(f)PolarizationcurvesofNCMP-2
beforeandafter10htest.(g)Long-termstabilityofNCMP-2ataconstantoverpotentialfor10hin1MKOH.Datatakenfromref123.
The Mott−Schottky phenomenon between a metal with a intermittentoperationremainsacriticalconcernsincecarbon-
higher work function and an n-type semiconductor with a based materials are naturally prone to corrosion, even under
greater Fermi level will make electron transmission from the mild oxidative circumstances. As a result, it is proposed that
semiconductortothemetaleasier.Asaconsequence,designing future study in this field concentrates on strengthening the
optimumH*adsorptionactivesitesusingΔG isapossibility. stability under anodic polarization that can occur after the
H*
Jietal.118reportedthatcarbonizationwasusedtocreateMoC electrolyzeristurnedoff.119
nanoparticles embedded in N, P-codoped carbon from 4.2.2. Transition Metal Phosphides. Transition metal
polyoxometalates and polypyrrole nanocomposites. Based on phosphides (TMPs), due to their inherent activity and high
anincreaseincarrierdensityandanincreaseinelectrontransfer stability in both acidic and alkaline environments, have
rateinMoCafterreducingtheworkfunctionduetotheMott− presented themselves as potential candidates for HER electro-
Schottky effect with n-type domains in N, P-codoped carbon, catalysis.120 In TMPs’ structure, the P atom plays an essential
synthesizedelectrocatalystscanleadtoacurrentdensityof10 roleinelectrocatalyticactivityduetoitsexcellentconductivity
mA cm−2 at 175 mV with a Tafel slope of 62 mV dec−1. In and unique electronic structure. One of the reasons for the
addition,theTOFvalueat150mVis1.49s−1,asisthelong-term superiority of metal phosphides is that the activity of these
stabilityofH generation.Metalcarbidesareapromisingchoice compounds is not limited to the crystal edge sites. However,
2
for HER catalysts in alkaline conditions due to their low cost, HERcanalsooccurinbulkmaterials.IntheTMPs,Ni-andCo-
high frequency, and the ability of obtaining alkaline activity based phosphides are among thelucky members of this group
approaching that of Pt. Regardless of its distinguishing for HER. Computational studies and empirical evidence have
characteristics, the durability of this class of catalysts during always suggested that NiPx alloys are potential candidates for
7321 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
Figure8.XPSdataoftheMo3dregionfor(a)pristineandH-annealedverticalMoS nanosheetsfor(b)5,(c)10,(d)15,(e)20,(f)25,(g)30and
2 2
(h)35min,respectively.(i)EISofpristine,H-annealed,andresulfurizedverticalMoS nanosheets.Allofthespectrawerecollectedbyscanningfrom
2 2
0.1to106Hzwithanoverpotentialof0.3V.(g)CathodicpolarizationcurvesoftheH-annealedMoS for20minbeforeandafter5000,7000,and
2 2
10000cycles,respectively.Inset:time-dependentcurrentdensityoftheH-annealedMoS for20minunderastaticoverpotentialof400mVfor8h.
2 2
(k−n)SEMimagesofH-annealedverticalMoS nanosheetsfor5,10,and35min,respectively;scalebar:1μm.(d)High-magnificationSEMimageof
2 2
H-annealedverticalMoS nanosheetsfor20min,showingroughedgesinducedbyH annealing;scalebar:200nm.Datatakenfromref129.
2 2 2
HERelectrocatalysis.121Zhangetal.122discoveredamultiphase doseis0.02mM,itshowsthemostprominentoverpotentialsof
nickel phosphide electrocatalyst composed of porous nickel 46mVat10mAcm−2.Itshouldbenotedthatthephosphidesof
powder as a matrix with manganese doped into porous nickel thetransitionmetalsarereactiveduetothenegativelycharged
powder containing phosphorus powder. After a high-temper- P-sites.Asaresultofthisreactivity,apassivelayercanquickly
ature phosphating operation, a multiphase nickel phosphide form on the electrocatalyst surface, which can completely
electrocatalyst(Ni P,Ni P,Ni P )(Mn−NiP)wasfabricated disrupt the electrocatalytic reaction. Studies have shown that
3 2 12 5
with a bimetallic compound. Transition metal phosphides are even shallow doses of NiP can effectively improve the HER
2
thought to be affordable and excellent HER catalysts. The performance(Figure7).
activity of the doped catalyst with the right quantity of 4.2.3. Transition Metal Chalcogenides (Sulfides and
manganese has risen due to the regulatory influence of doped Selenides). Transition metal chalcogenides,relying on proper-
manganese on the electronic structure of nickel and the ties such as being inexpensive and ease of preparation, are
electronic contact among nickel and phosphorus. The evolu- promising candidates to replace noble metals for HER.
tionaryactivityof3Mn−NiPhydrogeninthewholepHrange According to the existing studies, metal selenides show higher
showed outstanding results. The overpotentials required to catalyticactivitythanothermembersofthechalcogenides.48,124
produceacurrentdensityof10mAcm−2of3Mn−NiPwere164 The structures of metal sulfides are more straightforward than
and77mVatacidicandalkalinesolutions,respectively.Wanget those of metal electrocatalysts, and their structure must be
al.123 demonstrated a one-step hydrothermal method for carefully adjusted for efficient HER operation.125 Contrary to
synthesizing NiP with CoMoP nanosheets (NCMP) under popular belief, metal sulfides are not vulnerable to the sulfur
2
low-temperature phosphidation conditions. In the synthesized position. It is worth noting that these electrocatalysts can
electrocatalyst, the synergistic effect of two different compo- performwellinlowHcoatings,buttheirelectricalconductivity
nents, NiP and CoMoP, is induced. In this study, to find the decreasessignificantlywithincreasingHcoating.126
2
superiorcatalyst,theeffectofnickelcontentontheperformance The shortage of highly efficient and inexpensive catalysts
ofthecatalystisalsostudied,anditisfoundthatwhenthenickel severely hinders the spread of HER on a large scale. Among
7322 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
Figure9.(a)HERpolarizationcurvesforCo/Se−MoS−NFwithdifferentCo-dopingcontentsincomparisonwithCo−MoS−NFand40%Pt/C.
2 2
Allsamplesaredrop-castedonglassycarbonelectrodeformeasurements.TheTafelplots(b)andtheelectrochemicalimpedancespectroscopy(EIS)
Nyquistplots(c)ofCo/Se−MoS−NFsamplecomparedwithCo−MoS−NF,Se−MoS−NF,MoS−NF,andcommercial40%Pt/C.(d)HER
2 2 2 2
polarizationcurvesforCo/Se−MoS−NFunderlargecurrentdensitiesincomparisonwith40%Pt/Candcarbonpaper.Co/Se−MoS−NFand40%
2 2
Pt/Caredrop-castedoncarbonpaperformeasurements.(e)Chronopotentiometricmeasurementsoflong-termstabilityforCo/Se−MoS−NFand
2
40% Pt/C at 1000 mA cm−2. The vertical dotted lines in (e) mark the time span (every 72 h) of replacing the electrolyte in the 360 h
chronoamperometrytest.AlltheHERmeasurementswereconductedina0.5MHSO electrolyteat25°C.Datatakenfromref131.
2 4
metalsulfides,molybdenumsulfideisoneofthemostcommon the HER activity of vertical MoS nanosheets remarkably.
2
candidates for HER electrocatalysts due to its cheapness and AccordingtoFigure8,XPSresultsshowaminorS:Moratioafter
flexibility in design.127 It can be considered a pioneer in this H annealing,indicatingincreasedS-vacancy.Inthemeanwhile,
2
group of electrocatalysts. In the MoS electrocatalyst, only the EIS measurements demonstrate that H annealing speeds up
2 2
edges and voids S are the active catalytic sites for HER. loadtransfer.SEMimagesshowthatH annealingroughensthe
2
Therefore, to increase the electrocatalytic activity, it is very edgesofMoS andcreatesmoreedgesites,whichimprovesthe
2
importanttoincreaseandimprovethestructureoftheedgesites electrocatalystbehaviorforHER.
and the S-vacancy.128 He et al.129 demonstrated HER activity Inanidealstructure,MoS isa2DnetworkwithsixSatoms
2
enhancement by combining vertical nanosheets with H aroundeachMoatominanoctagonalconfiguration.MoS alone
2 2
annealing in a modified MoS . Due to a greater number of suffers from low catalytic performance for HER.1,130 Zheng et
2
edges,horizontalMoS nanosheetswiththisstructuralalteration al.131 proposed a triple-layer MoS nanofoam structure that
2 2
demonstrated stronger HER activity than pure vertical MoS encloses the surface selenium and cobalt in the inner layer,
2
nanosheets. In justifying the increase in electrocatalytic whose HER activity is higher than all reported heteroatom-
properties,itshouldbesaidthatH annealingfurtherenhanced doped MoS . As shown in Figure 9, the Co/Se−MoS −NF-
2 2 2
7323 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
Figure10.(a)SchematicdiagramoftheformationofMoSe−NiSe hybridnanoelectrocatalysts.Polarizationcurves(b)andcorrespondingTafel
2 3 4
plots(c)ofMoSe,MoNi,MoNi,MoNi,NiSe,andPt/C.(d)Nyquistplotsatanoverpotentialof250mV.(e)PolarizationcurvesofaMoNi
2 5 1 2 1 1 1 3 4 2 1
samplebeforeandafter1000cycles.Datatakenfromref139.
synthesizedsampleexhibitsamuchloweroverpotentialof382 catalystsforindustrialhydrogenproductionapplications.Inthis
mVthanthatof671mVovercommercialPt/Ccatalystatahigh study,Figure9ashowstheHERpolarizationcurvesoftheSe-
current density of 1000 mA cm−2. Also, the high activity can doped MoS nanofoam (Se−MoS −NF) with different Se-
2 2
remain stable with the long-term stability of more than 360 h dopingcontentsandCo/Se-codopedMoS nanofoam(Co/Se−
2
withoutdestruction.Accordingtothisstudy,structureengineer- MoS −NF) with different Co-doping contents. The onset
2
ing of MoS via coconfining multielements proposal is a overpotentialsfordeliveringcurrentdensitiesof−10and−100
2
promisingandfeasiblewayofdevelopinghigh-performanceand mA cm−2 in 0.5 M H SO electrolyte at 25 °C are plotted for
2 4
low-cost MoS electrocatalysts for large-scale HER. DFT comparison. The Se−MoS −NF sample with 9.1% Se-doping
2 2
calculations show that the Co atoms enclosed in the inner contentexhibitsthelowestonsetoverpotentialsforbothcurrent
layerofthestructureexcitetheadjacentSatoms.Incontrast,the densities,indicatingthehighestHERactivity.ThisisbecauseSe
Seatomsenclosethesurfaceofthestructure,whichallowsthe doping introduces more edge sites in the MoS nanoflakes,
2
creationofcomprehensiveactivesitesinsidetheplateandedge which are more active for HER. As the Se-doping content
with optimal hydrogen adsorption activity. The strategy in increases from 9.1% to 14.6%, the HER activity gradually
questionprovidesaviablepathwayfordevelopingMoS -based decreases.ThisisbecauseexcessiveSedopingmayleadtothe
2
7324 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
Figure11.(a)SchematicillustrationofthefabricationprocessofMoN/CeO@nickelfoamandthecatalyticprocess.(b)Currentvsoverpotential
2 2
plotsforMoN/CeO@NF-0.05,CeO@NF,MoN@NF,andPt/C.(c)TafelplotsforMoN/CeO@NF-0.05,CeO@NF,MoN@NF,andPt/C.
2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
(d)NyquistplotsforMoN/CeO@NF-n(n=0.02,0.04,0.05,and0.06),CeO@NF,andMoN@NF.Inset,enlargedviewofNyquistplotsfor
2 2 2 2
MoN/CeO@NF-n(n=0.02,0.04,0.05,and0.06).(e)Currentdensityasafunctionofscanrateofvariouselectrodes,wherethesloperepresents
2 2
Cdl.Datatakenfromref144.
formation of overcoordinated S atoms with weakened electron transfer in the HER reaction. A lower Tafel slope
adsorption of H* at the edge sites. The Co/Se−MoS −NF indicatesafasterrateofelectrontransfer,whichmeansamore
2
samplewith10.4%Co-dopingcontentexhibitsthelowestonset efficientcatalyst.TheCo(10.4)/Se−MoS −NFsampleexhibits
2
overpotentials for all three current densities, indicating the the lowest Tafel slope of 67 mV dec−1, which is significantly
highestHERactivity.ThisisbecauseCodopingpromotesthe lower than the Tafel slopes of the Se−MoS −NF (75 mV
2
formation of more edge sites and also enhances the electronic dec−1), Co(10.4)−MoS −NF (77 mV dec-1), and undoped
2
conductivityofthecatalyst.Figure9bshowstheTafelslopesof MoS −NF (83 mV dec−1) samples. This clearly demonstrates
2
theHERpolarizationcurvesoftheSe−MoS −NFandCo/Se− thesuperiorHERkineticsoftheCo/Se-codopedMoS catalyst.
2 2
MoS −NFsamples.TheTafelslopeisameasureoftherateof Also,Figure9cshowstheresultsofelectrochemicalimpedance
2
7325 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
spectroscopy (EIS) measurements of the Se−MoS −NF and medium,metalselenideshavebeensuccessfullytestedinacidic
2
Co/Se−MoS −NF samples. EIS measurements are used to media.
2
measurethechargetransferresistance(R )ofacatalyst,whichis 4.2.4. Transition Metal Nitrides. Transition metal nitrides
ct
ameasureoftheintrinsicresistancetoelectrontransfer.Alower (TMNs), known as transition alloys, have recently been
R valueindicatesamoreefficientcatalyst.TheCo(10.4)/Se− proposed as efficient HER electrocatalysts as alternatives to
ct
MoS −NFsampleexhibitsthelowestR valueofallthesamples, noble metal electrocatalysts due to their exceptional electrical
2 ct
whichconfirmsthatitisthemostefficientHERcatalyst. conductivity, corrosion resistance, mechanical robustness, and
Fractal-shaped MoS has been shown to exhibit enhanced highelectrochemicalstability.140Metalnitridesareparticularly
2
hydrogenevolutionreaction(HER)performancecomparedto appealing for future investigation due to their exceptional
itsplanarcounterpart.Thisisattributedtotheincreasednumber properties.Directnitridationisthetraditionalwayofproducing
of edge sites, which are the active sites for HER. The fractal metalnitrides.HeatinganNF(nickelfoam)inanNH atm,for
3
morphologyofMoS canbeinducedbynonequilibriumgrowth example, can provide an active Ni N/Ni foam electrocatalyst
2 3
conditions, such as rapid heating rates and high Mo precursor withexceptionalqualities(overpotential121mVat10mAcm−2
concentrations.TheenhancedHERactivityoffractalMoS can andevenstableinanalkalineenvironment,1MKOH,32h).141
2
beattributedtotheincreasednumberofedgesites.Edgesites TMNs containing Mo or Ni can achieve Pt-like activity in
are more reactive than basal plane sites due to their higher alkaline environments.142,143 Wang et al.144 published a self-
exposuretotheelectrolyte.Thehigherreactivityofedgesitesis supportingelectrocatalystpreparingthegrowthofaMO Nlayer
2
duetotheweakerbondingbetweenedgeatomsandtheMoS onaCeO layerdepositedonNF.AccordingtoFigure11a,the
2 2
lattice. Thisweaker bonding allows edgeatoms to more easily synthesized MO N/CeO @NF showed an attractive catalytic
2 2
dissociate hydrogen from water molecules. The fractal activityfortheHERat1.0MKOHevenmoreefficientlythan
morphology can be induced by nonequilibrium growth thePt/Celectrodeandrelativelylowoverpotentialof26mVfor
conditions, and the enhanced activity can be attributed to the a current density of 10 mA cm−2. The stability of this
increased number of edge sites and the higher surface area.132 electrocatalyst for a long time (24 h) was also evaluated. The
Like metal sulfides, the metal selenides have attracted much results offer great hope for building an inexpensive and stable
attentioninthepastdecade.Becausetheintendedreactiononly TMNselectrocatalystforawater-splittingreaction.
occursonthecrystal’sedges,selenides’electrocatalystactivityis Thisstudydiscussesthecurrentdensityversusoverpotential
greatly determined by the amount of active sites on its plots (Figure 11a) obtained from linear sweep voltammetry
surface.133 Therefore, catalyst surface optimization seems to (LSV) measurements. It compares the HER activities of
be critical for creating active and enriched edge locations. In different electrodes, including Pt/C, CeO @NF, Mo N@NF,
2 2
general,metalselenides,likemetalsulfides,followasimilarroute andMo N/CeO @NF-n.Thetexthighlightstheoverpotentials
2 2
duetotheirpropensitytofunctionasanactivecatalystforHER and current densities at 10 mA/cm2 for each electrode,
inanalkalineenvironment.134Asidefromsurfacemodification, demonstrating the performance of Mo N/CeO @NF-0.05 as
2 2
combining a metal selenide with another group(s) (such as theelectrodewiththesmallestoverpotentialforHERinalkaline
phosphides or sulfides) can have a significant impact on the solution,comparabletoPt.AuthorsprovidesTafelplots(Figure
electrocatalyst’s efficiency.135 The strategy of this method is 11b) to analyze the kinetics of the HER for the different
based on increasing the number of active sites in the electrodes. The Tafel slopes obtained from these plots are
electrocatalyst, which leads to increased electrode activity. compared, with Mo N/CeO @NF-0.05 and Pt/C showing
2 2
MoSe isconsideredapromisingelectrocatalystfortheHERto smaller slopes than CeO @NF and Mo N@NF. This
2 2 2
producegreenenergyduetoitsavailabilityandlowpreparation comparisonsuggeststhatMo N/CeO @NF-0.05isasefficient
2 2
cost.136 Applicable structural changes in the building of this as the Pt electrode for HER in alkaline solution. Additionally,
MoSe can significantly improve its efficiency.137 In the past this report includes Nyquist plots (Figure 11c) obtained from
2
decade,theuseof2Dstructuresandhybridnanoelectrocatalysts electrochemicalimpedancespectroscopy(EIS)measurements.
for HER has emerged as efficient and cost-effective electro- TheanalysisoftheNyquistplotsindicatesthatMo N/CeO @
2 2
catalysts. A MoSe hybrid with other transition metal NF-0.05 exhibits the fastest electron transfer in the HER
2
dichalcogenidestoformanoptimalnanostructureisaneffective process, as reflected by the smallest semicircle radius. This
way to increase HER electrocatalytic activity to replace a Pt observation aligns with the electrode’s lowest Tafel slope and
electrocatalyst.138Wuetal.139adoptedaseed-inducedsolution suggeststhatMo N/CeO @NF-0.05hasthebestHERactivity
2 2
techniquetocreateMoSe −Ni Se hybridnanoelectrocatalysts amongthedifferentMo N/CeO @NF-nelectrodes.
2 3 4 2 2
withaflowerlikeshape(Figure10.Inthestructure,theNi Se ThefabricationofNi-basedelectrodematerialshasattracted
3 4
componentinstinctivelytendstonucleateinsteadofindepend- muchattentionduetotheirsuitableactivityandgoodstabilityto
entnucleationtoformindividualnanocrystals,growingonthe replaceexpensivePtforproducingmolecularhydrogenthrough
surfaces of very thin MoSe nanoparticles to form an efficient theelectrolysisofwater.Supportingelementssuchascarbonare
2
hybrid nanostructure. The HER catalytic activities of MoSe − commonly utilized in this context to boost electrical
2
Ni Se hybridnanoelectrocatalystswithvariedMo:Niratiosare conductivity and catalytic activity. Balaji et al.145 observed a
3 4
compared. The comparison of MoSe −Ni Se hybrid nano- particularpathwayforfabricatingcarbon-backedNi N/Niasan
2 3 4 3
electrocatalysts with varied Mo:Ni ratios reveals that Mo:Ni efficient HER electrocatalyst in both 0.5 M H SO and 1 M
2 4
ratios impact HER activities. The MoSe −Ni Se hybrid has a KOH environments. By providing intrinsically active sites,
2 3 4
Mo:Ni molar ratio of 2:1 and increased HER characteristics, carbonsupportcaneffectivelyenhancetheelectronicstructure
withaTafelslopeof57mVdec−1andanoverpotentialof203 ofNi N/Ni.Superiorelectricalconductivityandchargetransfer
3
mVat10mAcm−2.Itshouldbenotedthatonlythetriangular rate are demonstrated by the optimized Ni N/Ni@C electro-
3
prismphaseedgelocationshaveHERelectrocatalyticproperties catalyst.TheTMNscompositealsoshowedimprovedelectro-
and the base plate, which usually does not have defective/ catalyticbehaviorwithalowoverpotentialof163and172mVat
unsaturated locations, is inactive. In addition to the alkaline 10 mA cm−2 and durability over 1000 cycles in acidic and
7326 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
Figure12.(a)Heteroatom-dopingprocessongraphiticcarbon.(b)Nitrogen-dopedverticalgrapheneasametal-freecatalystforHERexhibitsagood
activityandanexcellentstability,whichcanbeascribedtotheoptimizationofΔG byNdopingandtherobuststructureofVG.Datatakenfromref
(H)
159.
alkalinesolutionsforHERapplication.InTMNs,thedensityof nanoparticlesandthebondingoffunctionalsurfacespecies,are
statesinthed-bandofthecorrespondingmetalisregulatedby useful in increasing the activity of the catalysts.150 However,
thenitrogenatom.143,146Therefore,thereisaminordeficiency MOF-basedcatalystsaremoreattractiveanddiversethanother
in the occupation of the d-band. In this respect, they can typesofporouscatalystsduetothevariouscompoundsofmetal
competewithTMCs.AnexcitingfeatureofTMNsisthatthey centersandorganicligands.Thesecompounds,likemostother
canbeusedinalkalineenvironmentswithhighstability. porous catalysts, can be utilized in “pristine”, “precursor”, or
Kamran et al. reported the development of a novel “derived” forms for the dispersion or separation of active
nanoheterostructured catalyst for the HER in alkaline electro- catalytic species added to porous networks. According to
lytes.Thecatalyst,Ni(OH) @Ni−N/Ni−C/NF, iscomposed research studies, the combination of nanoparticles and MOF
2
ofNi(OH) nanoparticlesembeddedinanouterlayerofNi−N/ compoundscanproduceamazingsynergisticeffectsthatleadto
2
Ni−C.ThenanoheterointerfacingbetweenNi(OH) andNi− muchbetterperformancefortheHER.151
2
N/Ni−C phases is shown to enhance the HER activity As mentioned, electrocatalytic HER is usually achieved by
significantly compared to monophasic Ni(OH) . The authors establishing an electrical current due to a potential difference
2
attributetheenhancedHERactivitytotheinterphasicsynergy through an aqueous electrolyte to produce O at the anode
2
between Ni(OH) and Ni−N/Ni−C phases. Ni(OH) is a through the OER process and produce H at the cathode side
2 2 2
strong water-splitting promoter, but it has a strong affinity for throughtheHERprocess.Thehalf-reactionatthecathodeside
hydrogen,whichhindersthehydrogenevolutionprocess.Ni− isthefocusofmostelectrocatalyticHERresearch.However,in
N/Ni−C phases, on the other hand, have labile electronic the case of water splitting, the performance of MOF-based
propertiesandcanfacilitatethedissociationofhydrogenfrom catalysts at HER and OER must be compared.152 MOFs are
adsorbedhydrogenspecies.Thenanoheterointerfacingbetween frequently employed as supports or precursors; MOF-based
Ni(OH) and Ni−N/Ni−C phases allows for the efficient derivatives or composite materials may retain the original
2
transferofelectronsfromNi(OH) tohydrogenspeciesonNi− MOF’s porous structure, but the pore volume and specific
2
N/Ni−Cphases,leadingtoenhancedHERactivity.Theauthors surfaceareaaredecreased.ReducedporosityinMOFderivatives
demonstrated the superior performance of Ni(OH) @Ni−N/ is caused by the collapse of the crystalline porous structure
2
Ni−C/NFbycomparingitsHERactivitytothatofmonophasic caused by breaking coordination bonds and eliminating
Ni(OH) and other benchmark catalysts. Ni(OH) @Ni−N/ noncarbon components at high temperatures.153 When MOF
2 2
Ni−C/NF exhibited the lowest overpotentials for delivering is utilized as a support, it usually results in the colonization of
current densities of −10 and −100 mA cm−2 in 1 M KOH pores by guest particles.154 The reduction in porosity in this
compared to monophasic Ni(OH) and other catalysts. The exampleisproportionaltothesizeanddispersionoftheguest
2
Tafel slope of Ni(OH)2@Ni−N/Ni−C/NF was also lower particles.155
thanthatofmonophasicNi(OH) ,indicatingafasterreaction However,theperformanceofMOFderivativesisnotalways
2
rate.ThisworkfurtherdemonstratedthestabilityofNi(OH) @ compromised by lower porosity. It is important to note that
2
Ni−N/Ni−C/NF in alkaline electrolytes by subjecting it to MOF heat treatment is frequently used to produce MOF
cyclic voltammetry (CV) and chronopotentiometry (CP). derivatives with particular chemical makeups and structures,
Ni(OH) @Ni−N/Ni−C/NF exhibited good stability during such as metaloxides, metalcarbides, metalnitrides, and metal
2
CVandCP,withminimaldegradationovertime.147 sulfides. Yan et al.156 synthesized nickel−cobalt bimetallic
4.3. MOF-Based Electrocatalysts. The use of metal− phosphide nanotubes from MOF-74−Co Ni bimetallic for
x y
organicframeworks(MOFs)inelectrocatalytic,photocatalytic, electrocatalytic water distribution. The specific surface area of
and chemocatalytic processes makes them a strong choice for pristineMOFreducedfrom1100to55.6m2g−1afteroxidation
extremely effective HER.148 Research on MOF-based HER andphosphorylation.Encapsulationofguestmolecules,onthe
catalystsinvolvesawiderangeofporousmaterialsincludingas other hand, tries to add more catalytically active sites into the
zeolite, polymer, carbon, and composite materials.149 These original MOF or to increase the synergy between guest
species have evolved porosity with high specific surface area, moleculesandhostmaterials.In 2017,Haoetal.157 published
flexible crystalline porous frameworks, and big pore volume, theintroductionofMoS quantumdotsandgrapheneintoUiO-
2
whichistheprimarypropertyoftheirapplicabilityintheHER 66−NH (Zr-containing MOF) for HER. The specific surface
2
process. Aside from the intrinsic features indicated, external area of the original MOF is 712.3 m2 g−1, which decreases to
changes to the main MOFs, such as the loading of active about457.24m2g−1afterloadingMoS (5.0%byweight)and
2
7327 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
graphene. Zhen et al.158 improved the Ni nanoparticle-loaded (g) Thesubstrate surfaceplaysan important role, especially
MOF-5. After synthesis, due to the much-dispersed nano- forelectroactivemonolayersorultrathinfilms.Thiseffect
particles,thecorrespondingspecificsurfaceareareducedslightly is seen on both the smooth surface and the particle
(from 2973 to 2961 m2 g−1). These MOF-based materials coating.
mentioned above perform better in HER catalysis than their
(H) Planar deformation and strain engineering can assist
primaryprecursors(Figure12).
activateputativeelectrocatalyticsitesonbasesurfaces.
5. SUMMARYANDPERSPECTIVES (i) MOF-based materials demonstrate significant activity in
theHERduetotheirhighporosity,controlledporosity,
Hydrogenisafavoredalternativetofossilfuelssinceithasthe
and suitable structure. These materials are utilized as
highestgravitationalenergydensityandproducesnopollution,
electrocatalysts for HER for several reasons. First, they
making it a clean and sustainable energy source. In the
offer an opportunity to enhance and replace expensive
meanwhile, establishing water-dividing cells as an energy-
noblemetal-basedcatalystswithmoreaffordablemetals.
efficient conversion mechanism is critical to hydrogen
Second,theyaidinreducingthenecessaryoverpotential
generation. However, due to the sluggish reaction kinetics of
forHER,therebyimprovingtheoverallefficiency.Lastly,
the OER and HER for the high overpotential, the energy
MOF-based materials contribute to improved reaction
efficiency of water electrolysis is low, and its practical use is
kinetics,enablingmoreefficientHERprocesses.Overall,
hampered. HER is most likely the simplest and most direct
theuniquecharacteristicsofMOFsmakethempromising
methodofproducinghigh-qualityandselectivehydrogen.Pthas
candidatesforHERelectrocatalysis.
longbeenasuitableHERelectrocatalyst,butitslimitedsupplies
and high cost make developing HER impracticable. Further- Despitesignificantadvancesinunderstandingelectrocatalytic
more, since Pt must be utilized in combination with a carbon processesanddesigningsuitableelectrodesfortheHER,there
catalystsupport,themechanicalstabilityoftheelectrocatalystis areseveralchallengestothecost-effective productionoflarge-
a feature that might raise operating expenses. Pt recycling is scale hydrogen by split water electrolysis. To ensure the
anotherissuethatplaguesPt-basedsystems.Asaresult,ashiftin successfulprogressoftheresearch,itisnecessarytointegratethe
the approach of classic electrocatalysts appears to be testprotocolinordertobeabletocomparedifferentmaterials.
unavoidable. However, enhancing present Pt electrocatalysts In addition, when designing novel cathodic catalysts in the
asasolutioncandrasticallyloweroperatingexpenses.Practical researchphase,theeaseofpreparationandpotentialscalability
methodsforHERelectrocatalystshaverecentlybeenestablished for industrial applications should be considered. However,
using non-noble metals and related compounds. To assist the recent interest in a different approach to energy sources, the
practical use of water distribution in enterprises, the design of importance of environmental protection in the future, and
effective catalysts is critical inOER andHER to limit possible economic issues are expected to lead to new advances in the
overcapacity,booststability,andimproveefficiency.Themost designofactive,sustainable,andlow-costHERelectrocatalysts
common electrocatalytic activity parameters, such as over- for mass commercialization of water-based hydrogen produc-
potential at constant current density (10 mA cm−2) and Tafel tion.
slope,alongwithatleastoneoftheclassicalstabilitytests,were ■
selected as the main comparison parameters. The main AUTHORINFORMATION
parameters affecting the resulting catalytic activity can be CorrespondingAuthors
summarizedasfollows: FaranakManteghi−ResearchLaboratoryofInorganic
(a) The incorporation of transition metals into the electro- ChemistryandEnvironment,DepartmentofChemistry,Iran
catalyst design can be advantageous. Although these UniversityofScienceandTechnology,16846-13114Tehran,
beneficial effects are tunable, optimal synergistic effects Iran; orcid.org/0000-0002-2590-5063;
betweenvariousmetalsboostelectrocatalyticcapabilities. Email:f_manteghi@iust.ac.ir
ZariTehrani−TheFutureManufacturingResearchInstitute,
(b) The catalyst core/shell design is a realistic and practical
FacultyofScienceandEngineering,SwanseaUniversity,SA1
strategy to enhance the active sites for HER electro-
8ENSwansea,UnitedKingdom; orcid.org/0000-0002-
catalysis while making the material feasible for develop-
5069-7921;Email:z.tehrani@swansea.ac.uk
ment. It is particularly effective and successful in
increasing active sites around the borders of two- Author
dimensional layered structures. However, although the AmirKazemi−ResearchLaboratoryofInorganicChemistry
core/shell design enhances catalytic performance, the
andEnvironment,DepartmentofChemistry,IranUniversityof
overall structure may be inadequate for industrial
ScienceandTechnology,16846-13114Tehran,Iran
operation.
Completecontactinformationisavailableat:
(c) A high-level carbon catalyst is required for support. To
https://pubs.acs.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
obtain adequate performance, even with Pt, a sufficient
carboncatalystsupportmustbeutilized(andnotjustlow
Notes
overpotential). However, the physical and chemical
Theauthorsdeclarenocompetingfinancialinterest.
structure of carbon is undeniably important in electro-
■
catalyticefficacy.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
(d) Transition-based chemicals such as sulfides, selenides,
Theauthorsgratefullyacknowledgethefinancialsupportofthe
phosphides,andcarbidesarethemostpromisingoptions.
Research Council of the Iran University of Science and
(e) The employment of transition metals in electrocatalytic Technology, Swansea University, and the Royal Academy of
architecture,similartodoping,canbeadvantageous. Engineering.
7328 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
■
REFERENCES (17)Song,D.;Sun,J.;Sun,L.;Zhai,S.;Ho,G.W.;Wu,H.;Deng,W.
Q. Acidic media regulated hierarchical cobalt compounds with
(1)Shi,Y.;Ma,Z.-R.;Xiao,Y.-Y.;Yin,Y.-C.;Huang,W.-M.;Huang,
phosphorous doping as water splitting electrocatalysts. Adv. Energy
Z.-C.;Zheng,Y.-Z.;Mu,F.-Y.;Huang,R.;Shi,G.-Y.;etal.Electronic
Mater.2021,11(22),2100358.
metal-supportinteractionmodulatessingle-atomplatinumcatalysisfor
(18)Voitic,G.;Hacker,V.Recentadvancementsinchemicallooping
hydrogenevolutionreaction.Nat.Commun.2021,12(1),1−11.
watersplittingfortheproductionofhydrogen.RscAdvances2016,6
(2)Dou,Y.;Wang,A.;Zhao,L.;Yang,X.;Wang,Q.;Sudi,M.S.;Zhu,
(100),98267−98296.
W.;Shang,D.Boostedhydrogenevolutionreactionforanitrogen-rich
(19)Hermesmann,M.;Müller,T.Green,Turquoise,Blue,orGrey?
azo-bridgedmetallatedporphyrinnetwork.J.ColloidInterfaceSci.2023,
Environmentally friendly Hydrogen Production in Transforming
650,943−950.
Energy Systems. Prog. Energy Combust. Sci. 2022, 90, 100996.
(3)Vijayapradeep,S.;Logeshwaran,N.;Ramakrishnan,S.;Kim,A.R.;
Haverkort, J.; Rajaei, H. Voltage losses in zero-gap alkaline water
Sampath, P.; Kim, D. H.; Yoo, D. J. Novel Pt-carbon core-shell
electrolysis.J.PowerSources2021,497,229864.
decorated hierarchical CoMo2S4 as efficient electrocatalysts for
(20)Li,Y.;Shi,X.;Phoumin,H.Astrategicroadmapforlarge-scale
alkaline/seawater hydrogen evolution reaction. Chem. Eng. J. 2023,
green hydrogen demonstration and commercialisation in China: A
473,145348.
reviewandsurveyanalysis.Int.J.HydrogenEnergy2022,47,24592−
(4) Ramachandran, E.; Krishnaiah, R.;Venkatesan, E. P.; Shaik, S.;
24609.
Saleel,C.A.;Hussain,F.InvestigationintotheIdealConcoctionfor
(21) Miller, H. A.; Bouzek, K.; Hnat, J.; Loos, S.; Bernäcker, C. I.;
PerformanceandEmissionsEnhancementofJatrophaBiodiesel-Diesel
Weißgärber, T.; Röntzsch, L.; Meier-Haack, J.Green hydrogen from
withCuONanoparticlesUsingResponseSurfaceMethodology.ACS
anion exchange membrane water electrolysis: a review of recent
omega2023,8(42),39067−39079.
developmentsincriticalmaterialsandoperatingconditions.Sustainable
(5)Riaz,A.;Qyyum,M.A.;Hussain,A.;Lee,M.Tappingtheenergy
Energy&Fuels2020,4(5),2114−2133.
and exergy benefits of channeling liquid air energy system in the
(22)Zhang,P.;Cheng,H.;Gu,F.;Hong,S.;Dong,H.;Li,C.Progress
hydrogen liquefaction process. Journal of Energy Storage 2023, 72,
on iron-series metal-organic frameworks materials towards electro-
108193.
catalytichydrogenevolutionreaction.SurfacesandInterfaces2023,42,
(6)Hoang,A.T.;Pandey,A.;DeOsés,F.J.M.;Chen,W.-H.;Said,Z.;
Ng, K. H.; Aǧbulut, D. C.; Tarełko, W.; Ölçer, A. I.; Nguyen, X. P. 103368.
(23)Wang,J.;Gao,Y.;Kong,H.;Kim,J.;Choi,S.;Ciucci,F.;Hao,Y.;
Technologicalsolutionsforboostinghydrogenroleindecarbonization
Yang, S.; Shao, Z.; Lim, J. Non-precious-metal catalysts for alkaline
strategies and net-zero goals of world shipping: Challenges and
waterelectrolysis:operandocharacterizations,theoreticalcalculations,
perspectives.RenewableSustainableEnergyRev.2023,188,113790.
andrecentadvances.Chem.Soc.Rev.2020,49(24),9154−9196.
(7) Longchamps, R. S.; Yang, X.-G.; Wang, C.-Y. Fundamental
(24)Dinh,K.N.;Sun,Y.;Pei,Z.;Yuan,Z.;Suwardi,A.;Huang,Q.;
Insights into Battery Thermal Management and Safety. ACS Energy
Lett.2022,7(3),1103−1111. Liao,X.;Wang,Z.;Chen,Y.;Yan,Q.Electronicmodulationofnickel
disulfide toward efficient water electrolysis. Small 2020, 16 (17),
(8)Li,Y.;Zhou,Q.;Weng,S.;Ding,F.;Qi,X.;Lu,J.;Li,Y.;Zhang,X.;
1905885.Grigoriev,S.;Fateev,V.;Bessarabov,D.;Millet,P.Current
Rong, X.; Lu, Y.; et al. Interfacial engineering to achieve an energy
status,researchtrends,andchallengesinwaterelectrolysisscienceand
densityofover200Whkg-1insodiumbatteries.Nat.Energy2022,7
(6),511−519.Kumar,A.;Bui,V.Q.;Lee,J.;Jadhav,A.R.;Hwang,Y.;
technology.Int.J.HydrogenEnergy2020,45(49),26036−26058.
(25) Wan, L.; Xu, Z.; Wang, P.; Lin, Y.; Wang, B. H2SO4-doped
Kim,M.G.;Kawazoe,Y.;Lee,H.Modulatinginterfacialchargedensity
polybenzimidazole membranes for hydrogen production with acid-
of NiP2-FeP2 via coupling with metallic Cu for accelerating alkaline
hydrogenevolution.ACSEnergyLett.2021,6(2),354−363. alkalineamphotericwaterelectrolysis.J.Membr.Sci.2021,618,118642.
(9)Biggins,F.;Kataria,M.;Roberts,D.;Brown,S.Greenhydrogen Cheikh, J. A.; Zakari, R.; Bhosale, A. C.; Villagra, A.; Leclerc, N.;
investments: Investigating the option to wait. Energy 2022, 241, Floquet, S.; Ghosh, P. C.; Ranjbari, A.; Cadot, E.; Millet, P.; et al.
122842.Fei,B.;Chen,Z.;Liu,J.;Xu,H.;Yan,X.;Qing,H.;Chen,M.; Electrocatalyticpropertiesof{Mo3S4}-basedcomplexeswithregard
Wu,R.Ultrathinningnickelsulfidewithmodulatedelectrondensityfor to the hydrogen evolution reaction and application to PEM water
efficientwatersplitting.Adv.EnergyMater.2020,10(41),2001963.
electrolysis.Mater.Adv.2020,1(3),430−440.
(10) Thirumal, V.; Yuvakkumar, R.; Saravanakumar, B.; Ravi, G.; (26)Huang,W.-H.;Li,X.-M.;Yang,X.-F.;Zhang,H.-B.;Wang,F.;
Isacfranklin, M.; Shobana, M.; Al-Sehemi, A. G.; Velauthapillai, D. Zhang, J. Highly efficient electrocatalysts for overall water splitting:
CarbonizationandoptimizationofbiomasswasteforHERapplication. mesoporousCoS/MoS2withhetero-interfaces.Chem.Commun.2021,
Fuel2022,324,124466. 57(39),4847−4850.Ji,Y.;Liu,J.;Hao,S.;Xiao,Y.;Li,L.;Liu,X.Full
(11)Fakayode,O.A.;Yusuf,B.A.;Zhou,C.;Xu,Y.;Ji,Q.;Xie,J.;Ma, watersplittingbyananoporousCeO2nanowirearrayunderalkaline
H. Simplistic two-step fabrication of porous carbon-based biomass- conditions.InorganicChemistryFrontiers2020,7(13),2533−2537.
derivedelectrocatalystforefficienthydrogenevolutionreaction.Energy (27) Lin, L.; Sherrell, P.; Liu, Y.; Lei, W.; Zhang, S.; Zhang, H.;
ConversionandManagement2021,227,113628. Wallace, G.G.; Chen, J. Engineered 2Dtransition metal dichalcoge-
(12)Huner,B.;Demir,N.;Kaya,M.F.HydrogenEvolutionReaction nides�a vision of viable hydrogen evolution reaction catalysis. Adv.
PerformanceofNi-Co-CoatedGraphene-Based3DPrintedElectrodes. EnergyMater.2020,10(16),1903870.
ACSomega2023,8(6),5958−5974. (28)Wang,X.;Zheng,Y.;Sheng,W.;Xu,Z.J.;Jaroniec,M.;Qiao,S.-
(13) McCrum,I. T.; Koper, M. The role of adsorbed hydroxide in Z.Strategiesfordesignofelectrocatalystsforhydrogenevolutionunder
hydrogen evolution reaction kinetics on modified platinum. Nature alkalineconditions.Mater.Today2020,36,125−138.Pu,Z.;Amiinu,I.
Energy2020,5(11),891−899. S.;Cheng,R.;Wang,P.;Zhang,C.;Mu,S.;Zhao,W.;Su,F.;Zhang,G.;
(14)Hao,J.;Zhuang,Z.;Cao,K.;Gao,G.;Wang,C.;Lai,F.;Lu,S.; Liao, S.; et al. Single-atom catalysts for electrochemical hydrogen
Ma, P.; Dong, W.; Liu, T.; et al. Unraveling the electronegativity- evolution reaction: recent advances and future perspectives. Nano-
dominated intermediate adsorption on high-entropy alloy electro- MicroLett.2020,12(1),1−29.Shang,P.;Ye,Z.;Ding,Y.;Zhu,Z.;
catalysts.Nat.Commun.2022,13(1),1−13. Peng,X.;Ma,G.;Li,D.Nanosponge-likesolidsolutionofNiMowitha
(15)Tang,Z.;Wei,S.;Wang,Y.;Dai,L.Three-dimensionalreduced high hydrogen evolution reaction performance over a wide range of
graphene oxide decorated with cobalt metaphosphate as high cost- currentdensities. ACSSustainableChem. Eng. 2020,8(29),10664−
efficiency electrocatalysts for the hydrogen evolution reaction. RSC 10672.
Adv.2022,12(17),10522−10533. (29) Liu, Y.; Yong, X.; Liu, Z.; Chen, Z.; Kang, Z.; Lu, S. Unified
(16)Wang,T.;Tao,L.;Zhu,X.;Chen,C.;Chen,W.;Du,S.;Zhou,Y.; catalyst for efficient and stable hydrogen production by both the
Zhou, B.; Wang, D.; Xie, C.; et al. Combined anodic and cathodic electrolysis of water and the hydrolysis of ammonia borane. Adv.
hydrogenproductionfromaldehydeoxidationandhydrogenevolution SustainableSyst.2019,3(5),1800161.dosSantos,K.G.;Eckert,C.T.;
reaction.Nat.Catal.2022,5(1),66−73. DeRossi,E.;Bariccatti,R.A.;Frigo,E.P.;Lindino,C.A.;Alves,H.J.
7329 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
Hydrogen production in the electrolysis of water in Brazil, a review. hydrogenbindingenergyonmonometallicsurfaces.EnergyEnviron.Sci.
RenewableandSustainableEnergyReviews2017,68,563−571. 2013,6(5),1509−1512.
(30) Wang, Y.; Sun, D.; Wang, M.; Feng, Z.; Hall, A. S. Oxygen (39) Zheng, Y.; Jiao, Y.; Vasileff, A.; Qiao, S. Z. The hydrogen
ReductionElectrocatalysisonOrderedIntermetallicPd-BiElectrodes evolution reaction in alkaline solution: from theory, single crystal
IsEnhancedbyaLowCoverageofSpectatorSpecies.J.Phys.Chem.C models, to practical electrocatalysts. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2018, 57
2020,124(9),5220−5224.Wang,J.;Qiu,T.;Chen,X.;Lu,Y.;Yang, (26),7568−7579.
W. N-doped carbon@ Ni-Al2O3 nanosheet array@ graphene oxide (40)Kim,J.;Jung,H.;Jung,S.-M.;Hwang,J.;Kim,D.Y.;Lee,N.;
composite as an electrocatalyst for hydrogen evolution reaction in Kim,K.-S.;Kwon,H.;Kim,Y.-T.;Han,J.W.;etal.Tailoringbinding
alkalinemedium.J.PowerSources2015,293,178−186.Schmidt,T.J.; abilities by incorporating oxophilic transition metals on 3D nano-
Stamenkovic, V.; Ross, P. N., Jr.; Markovic, N. M. Temperature structured Ni arrays for accelerated alkaline hydrogen evolution
dependent surface electrochemistry on Pt single crystals in alkaline reaction. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2021, 143 (3), 1399−1408. Ugwu, L. I.;
electrolytePart3.Theoxygenreductionreaction.Phys.Chem.Chem. Morgan,Y.;Ibrahim,H.Applicationofdensityfunctionaltheoryand
Phys.2003,5(2),400−406. machine learning in heterogenous-based catalytic reactions for
(31)Cai,J.;Ding,J.;Wei,D.;Xie,X.;Li,B.;Lu,S.;Zhang,J.;Liu,Y.; hydrogenproduction.Int.J.HydrogenEnergy2022,47(4),2245−2267.
Cai, Q.; Zang, S. Coupling of Ru and O-Vacancy on 2D Mo-Based (41) Ibn Shamsah, S. M. Earth-abundant electrocatalysts for water
Electrocatalyst Via a Solid-Phase Interface Reaction Strategy for splitting:currentandfuturedirections.Catalysts2021,11(4),429.
Hydrogen Evolution Reaction. Adv. Energy Mater. 2021, 11 (26), (42)Krishtalik,L.I.Kineticisotopeeffectinthehydrogenevolution
2100141.Kou,T.;Chen,M.;Wu,F.;Smart,T.J.;Wang,S.;Wu,Y.; reaction.Electrochimicaacta2001,46(19),2949−2960.Qi,Q.;Shao,
Zhang, Y.; Li, S.; Lall, S.; Zhang, Z. J. N. c.; et al. Carbon doping D.;Zhou,Y.;Wang,Q.;Yu,X.-Y.Plasma-inducedimplantingofactive
switching on the hydrogen adsorption activity of NiO for hydrogen species in metal-organic frameworks for efficient hydrogen evolution
evolutionreaction.Nat.Commun.2020,11(1),1−10.Li,W.;Liu,G.; reaction.JournalofMaterialsChemistryA2023,11(29),15663−15669.
Li,J.;Wang,Y.;Ricardez-Sandoval,L.;Zhang,Y.;Zhang,Z.J.A.S.S. (43)Wu,H.;Feng,C.;Zhang,L.;Zhang,J.;Wilkinson,D.P.Non-
Hydrogenevolutionreactionmechanismon2H-MoS2electrocatalyst. noble metal electrocatalysts for the hydrogen evolution reaction in
Appl.Surf.Sci.2019,498,143869.Liu,Z.;Yang,X.;Hu,G.;Feng,L.Ru waterelectrolysis.ElectrochemicalEnergyReviews2021,4(3),473−507.
nanoclusters coupled on Co/N-doped carbon nanotubes efficiently (44) Zhou, F.; Zhou, Y.; Liu, G.-G.; Wang, C.-T.; Wang, J. Recent
catalyzedthehydrogenevolutionreaction.ACSSustainableChem.Eng. advances in nanostructured electrocatalysts for hydrogen evolution
2020,8(24),9136−9144.Zhou,M.;Li,H.;Long,A.;Zhou,B.;Lu,F.; reaction.RareMetals2021,40(12),3375−3405.Chen,L.-W.;Liang,
Zhang,F.;Zhan,F.;Zhang,Z.;Xie,W.;Zeng,X.;etal.Modulating3d H.-W.Ir-basedbifunctionalelectrocatalystsforoverallwatersplitting.
Orbitals of Ni Atoms on Ni-Pt Edge Sites Enables Highly-Efficient Catal.Sci.Technol.2021,11,4673−4689.
Alkaline Hydrogen Evolution. Adv. Energy Mater. 2021, 11 (36), (45)Zhang,X.-Y.;Xie,J.-Y.;Ma,Y.;Dong,B.;Liu,C.-G.;Chai,Y.-M.
2101789. Anoverviewoftheactivesitesintransitionmetalelectrocatalystsand
(32)Yu,X.;Xu,S.;Wang,Z.;Cheng,X.;Du,Y.;Chen,G.;Sun,X.; their practical activity forhydrogen evolution reaction. Chem. Eng. J.
Wu,Q.AnMn-dopedNiCoPflower-likestructureasahighlyefficient 2022,430,132312.
electrocatalyst for hydrogen evolution reaction in acidic and alkaline (46)Theerthagiri,J.;Lee,S.J.;Murthy,A.P.;Madhavan,J.;Choi,M.
solutionswithlongduration.Nanoscale2021,13(25),11069−11076. Y.Fundamentalaspectsandrecentadvancesintransitionmetalnitrides
(33)He,H.-z.;Zhang,Y.;Li,Y.;Wang,P.Recentinnovationsofsilk- as electrocatalysts for hydrogen evolution reaction: A review. Curr.
derived electrocatalysts for hydrogen evolution reaction, oxygen Opin.SolidStateMater.Sci.2020,24(1),100805.
evolution reaction and oxygen reduction reaction. Int. J. Hydrogen (47)Ge,Z.;Fu,B.;Zhao,J.;Li,X.;Ma,B.;Chen,Y.Areviewofthe
Energy2021,46(11),7848−7865. electrocatalystsonhydrogenevolutionreactionwithanemphasison
(34)Wen,Q.;Zhao,Y.;Liu,Y.;Li,H.;Zhai,T.Ultrahigh-Current- Fe,CoandNi-basedphosphides.J.Mater.Sci.2020,55(29),14081−
DensityandLong-Term-DurabilityElectrocatalystsforWaterSplitting. 14104.
Small2022,18(4),2104513.Hao,J.;Wei,F.;Zhang,X.;Li,L.;Zhang, (48) Anantharaj, S.; Kundu, S.; Noda, S. Progress in nickel
C.; Liang, D.; Ma, X.; Lu, P. Defect and doping engineered penta- chalcogenideelectrocatalyzedhydrogenevolutionreaction.Journalof
grapheneforcatalysisof hydrogen evolutionreaction.Nanoscale Res. MaterialsChemistryA2020,8(8),4174−4192.
Lett.2021,16(1),1−9. (49)Li,T.;Hu,T.;Dai,L.;Li,C.M.Metal-freephoto-andelectro-
(35)Wang,S.;Xu,B.;Huo,W.;Feng,H.;Zhou,X.;Fang,F.;Xie,Z.; catalystsforhydrogenevolutionreaction.JournalofMaterialsChemistry
Shang,J.K.;Jiang,J.EfficientFeCoNiCuPdthin-filmelectrocatalystfor A2020,8(45),23674−23698.
alkaline oxygen and hydrogen evolution reactions. Appl. Catal. B: (50) Luo, W.; Wang, Y.; Cheng, C. Ru-based electrocatalysts for
Environmental2022,313,121472. hydrogen evolution reaction: recent research advances and perspec-
(36)Tymoczko,J.;Calle-Vallejo,F.;Schuhmann,W.;Bandarenka,A. tives.MaterialsTodayPhysics2020,15,100274.Ogundipe,T.O.;Shen,
S. Making the hydrogen evolution reaction in polymer electrolyte L.;Lu,Z.;Yan,C.;Yan,C.RecentAdvancesonBimetallicTransition
membraneelectrolysersevenfaster.Nat.Commun.2016,7(1),1−6. Metal Phosphides for Enhanced Hydrogen Evolution Reaction.
Lacň jevac,U.;Vasilic,́ R.;Dobrota,A.;Đurđic,́ S.;Tomanec,O.;Zborǐl, ChemistrySelect2022,7(23),No.e202200291.
R.;Mohajernia,S.;Nguyen,N.T.;Skorodumova,N.;Manojlovic,́ D.; (51)Chen,Q.;Yu,Y.;Li,J.;Nan,H.;Luo,S.;Jia,C.;Deng,P.;Zhong,
et al. High-performance hydrogen evolution electrocatalysis using S.; Tian, X. Recent Progress in Layered Double Hydroxide-Based
proton-intercalatedTiO2nanotubearraysasinteractivesupportsforIr Electrocatalyst for Hydrogen Evolution Reaction. ChemElectroChem.
nanoparticles.J.Mater.Chem.A2020,8(43),22773−22790.Zhang, 2022,9(9),No.e202101387.Zhou,D.;Li,P.;Lin,X.;McKinley,A.;
W.;Huang,B.;Wang,K.;Yang,W.;Lv,F.;Li,N.;Chao,Y.;Zhou,P.; Kuang, Y.; Liu, W.; Lin, W.-F.; Sun, X.; Duan, X. Layered double
Yang, Y.; Li, Y.; et al. WOx-Surface Decorated PtNi@ Pt Dendritic hydroxide-based electrocatalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction:
Nanowires as Efficient pH-Universal Hydrogen Evolution Electro- identification and tailoring of active sites, and superaerophobic
catalysts.Adv.EnergyMater.2021,11(3),2003192. nanoarrayelectrodeassembly.Chem.Soc.Rev.2021,50(15),8790−
(37)Wendt,H.;Spinacé,E.V.;OliveiraNeto,A.;Linardi,M.J.Q.N. 8817.
Electrocatalysis and electrocatalysts for low temperature fuel cells: (52)Chen,J.;Cheng,H.;Ding,L.-X.;Wang,H.Competinghydrogen
fundamentals,stateoftheart,researchanddevelopment.Quiḿ icaNova evolution reaction: a challenge in electrocatalytic nitrogen fixation.
2005, 28 (6), 1066−1075. Koper, M. T. Thermodynamic theory of MaterialsChemistryFrontiers2021,5(16),5954−5969.Zhu,J.;Yang,
multi-electron transfer reactions: Implications for electrocatalysis. J. R.;Zhang,G.Atomicallythintransitionmetaldichalcogenidesforthe
Electroanal.Chem.2011,660(2),254−260. hydrogenevolutionreaction.ChemPhysMater.2022,1,102.
(38)Sheng,W.;Myint,M.;Chen,J.G.;Yan,Y.J.E.Correlatingthe (53)Hansen,J.N.;Prats,H.;Toudahl,K.K.;MørchSecher,N.;Chan,
hydrogen evolution reaction activity in alkaline electrolytes with the K.;Kibsgaard,J.;Chorkendorff,I.IsthereanythingbetterthanPtfor
7330 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
HER?ACSenergyletters2021,6(4),1175−1180.Beyene,B.B.;Hung, (66)Zhai,L.;She,X.;Zhuang,L.;Li,Y.;Ding,R.;Guo,X.;Zhang,Y.;
C.-H.Recentprogressonmetalloporphyrin-basedhydrogenevolution Zhu,Y.;Xu,K.;Fan,H.J.;etal.ModulatingBuilt-InElectricFieldvia
catalysis.Coord.Chem.Rev.2020,410,213234. VariableOxygenAffinityforRobustHydrogenEvolutionReactionin
(54)Aggarwal,P.;Sarkar,D.;Awasthi,K.;Menezes,P.W.Functional NeutralMedia.Angew.Chem.,Int.Ed.2022,61(14),No.e202116057.
role of single-atom catalysts in electrocatalytic hydrogen evolution: Chen, Y.; Ding, R.; Li, J.; Liu, J. Highly active atomically dispersed
Currentdevelopmentsandfuturechallenges.Coord.Chem.Rev.2022, platinum-based electrocatalyst for hydrogen evolution reaction
452,214289. achieved by defect anchoring strategy. Appl. Catal. B: Environmental
(55)Zahra,R.;Pervaiz,E.;Yang,M.;Rabi,O.;Saleem,Z.;Ali,M.; 2022,301,120830.
Farrukh,S.Areviewonnickelcobaltsulphideandtheirhybrids:Earth (67)Ghamami,S.;KazemiKorayem,A.;Baqeri,N.Productionand
abundant,pHstableelectro-catalystforhydrogenevolutionreaction. purification of titanium dioxide with titanium tetrachloride nano-
Int.J.HydrogenEnergy2020,45(46),24518−24543. particles from eliminate concentrate of Kahnooj mine in Kerman. J.
(56)Yang,W.;Chen,S.Recentprogressinelectrodefabricationfor Appl.Chem.2020,15(55),189−206.Ren,B.;Jin,Q.;Li,Y.;Li,Y.;Cui,
electrocatalytichydrogenevolutionreaction:Aminireview.Chem.Eng. H.; Wang, C. Activating titanium dioxide as a new efficient
J.2020,393,124726. electrocatalyst:fromtheorytoexperiment.ACSAppl.Mater.Interfaces
(57)Chen,S.;Pan,Y.InfluenceofgroupIIIandIVelementsonthe 2020,12(10),11607−11615.
hydrogenevolutionreactionofMoS2disulfide.J.Phys.Chem.C2021, (68)Kweon,D.H.;Okyay,M.S.;Kim,S.-J.;Jeon,J.-P.;Noh,H.-J.;
125(22),11848−11856. Park, N.; Mahmood, J.; Baek, J.-B. Ruthenium anchored on carbon
(58)Feng,W.;Pang,W.;Xu,Y.;Guo,A.;Gao,X.;Qiu,X.;Chen,W. nanotube electrocatalyst for hydrogen production with enhanced
Transition metal selenides for electrocatalytic hydrogen evolution Faradaicefficiency.Nat.Commun.2020,11(1),1−10.
reaction.ChemElectroChem.2020,7(1),31−54. (69)Bao,X.;Chen,Y.;Mao,S.;Wang,Y.;Yang,Y.;Gong,Y.Boosting
(59)Drosou,M.;Kamatsos,F.;Mitsopoulou,C.A.Recentadvances the performance gain of Ru/C for hydrogen evolution reaction via
inthemechanismsofthehydrogenevolutionreactionbynon-innocent surfaceengineering.EnergyEnviron.Mater.2023,6(5).
sulfur-coordinating metal complexes. Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers (70)Malik,B.;Anantharaj,S.;Karthick,K.;Pattanayak,D.K.;Kundu,
2020,7(1),37−71. S.J.C.S.Technology.MagneticCoPtnanoparticle-decoratedultrathin
(60)Liu,Y.;Wang,Q.;Zhang,J.;Ding,J.;Cheng,Y.;Wang,T.;Li,J.; Co (OH) 2 nanosheets: an efficient bi-functional water splitting
Hu, F.; Yang, H. B.; Liu, B. Recent Advances in Carbon-Supported catalyst. Catalysis Science & Technology 2017, 7 (12), 2486−2497.
Noble-Metal Electrocatalysts for Hydrogen Evolution Reaction: Thiel,F.;Geissler,D.;Nielsch,K.;Kauffmann,A.;Seils,S.;Heilmaier,
Syntheses, Structures, and Properties. Adv. Energy Mater. 2022, 12, M.;Utt,D.;Albe,K.;Motylenko,M.;Rafaja,D.J.A.M.;etal.Originsof
2200928. strengthandplasticityinthepreciousmetalbasedhigh-entropyalloy
(61)Zheng,X.;Peng,L.;Li,L.;Yang,N.;Yang,Y.;Li,J.;Wang,J.; AuCuNiPdPt.ActaMater.2020,185,400−411.Liu,H.;Xi,C.;Xin,J.;
Wei,Z.J.C.s.Roleofnon-metallicatomsinenhancingthecatalytic Zhang,G.;Zhang,S.;Zhang,Z.;Huang,Q.;Li,J.;Liu,H.;Kang,J.J.C.
activity of nickel-based compounds for hydrogen evolution reaction. E. J. Free-standing nanoporous NiMnFeMo alloy: An efficient non-
Chemicalscience2018,9(7),1822−1830. preciousmetalelectrocatalystforwatersplitting.Chem.Eng.J.2021,
(62)Kozhushner,A.;Zion,N.;Elbaz,L.J.C.O.i.E.Methodsfor 404,126530.
assessment and measurement of the active site density in platinum (71)Scofield,M.E.;Zhou,Y.;Yue,S.;Wang,L.;Su,D.;Tong,X.;
groupmetal-freeoxygenreductionreactioncatalysts.CurrentOpinionin Vukmirovic, M. B.; Adzic, R. R.; Wong, S. S. Role of chemical
Electrochemistry2021,25,100620.Carmo,M.;Fritz,D.L.;Mergel,J.; composition in the enhanced catalytic activity of Pt-based alloyed
Stolten,D.AcomprehensivereviewonPEMwaterelectrolysis.Int.J. ultrathinnanowiresforthehydrogenoxidationreactionunderalkaline
HydrogenEnergy2013,38(12),4901−4934.Safizadeh,F.;Ghali,E.; conditions.ACSCatal.2016,6(6),3895−3908.
Houlachi, G. Electrocatalysis developments for hydrogen evolution (72)Santos,D.;Sequeira,C.;Maccio,̀ D.;Saccone,A.;Figueiredo,J.
reactioninalkalinesolutions-Areview.Int.J.HydrogenEnergy2015,40 Platinum-rareearthelectrodesforhydrogenevolutioninalkalinewater
(1),256−274. electrolysis.Internationaljournalofhydrogenenergy2013,38(8),3137−
(63) Markovicá , N. M.; Sarraf, S. T.; Gasteiger, H. A.; Ross, P. N. 3145. Stojic,́ D. L.; Grozdic,́ T. D.; Kaninski, M. M.; Maksic,́ A. D.;
Faraday Transactions. Hydrogen electrochemistry on platinum low- Simic,́ N.D.Intermetallicsasadvancedcathodematerialsinhydrogen
indexsingle-crystalsurfacesinalkalinesolution.J.Chem.Soc.,Faraday production via electrolysis. International journal of hydrogen energy
Trans. 1996, 92 (20), 3719−3725. Gottesfeld, S. Fuel cell science: 2006,31(7),841−846.
Theory,fundamentals,andbiocatalysis;JohnWiley&Sons:NewYork, (73)Naveen,M.H.;Huang,Y.;BisalereKantharajappa,S.;Seo,K.-D.;
2011. Kobayashi, S.; Tryk, D.; Uchida, H. J. E. C. Enhancement of Park,D.-S.;Shim,Y.-B.Enhancedelectrocatalyticactivitiesofinsitu
hydrogen evolution activity on Pt-skin/Pt3Co [(111),(100), and produced Pd/S/N-doped carbon in oxygen reduction and hydrogen
(110)] single crystal electrodes. Electrochem. Commun. 2020, 110, evolutionreactions.ACSAppl.EnergyMater.2021,4(1),575−585.
106615. (74)Zhang,L.;Xiao,W.;Zhang,Y.;Han,F.;Yang,X.Nanocarbon
(64)Lee,W.-J.;Wan,Z.;Kim,C.-M.;Oh,I.-K.;Harada,R.;Suzuki,K.; encapsulating Ni-doped MoP/graphene composites for highly
Choi,E.-A.;Kwon,S.-H.J.C.o.M.AtomiclayerdepositionofPtthin improved electrocatalytic hydrogen evolution reaction. Compos.
films using dimethyl (N, N-dimethyl-3-butene-1-amine-N) platinum Commun.2021,26,100792.
andO2reactant.Chem.Mater.2019,31(14),5056−5064.Lopes,P.P.; (75)Pu,M.;Wang,D.;Zhang,Z.;Guo,Y.;Guo,W.Flexoelectricity
Li, D.; Lv, H.; Wang, C.; Tripkovic, D.; Zhu, Y.; Schimmenti, R.; enhanced water splitting and hydrogen evolution reaction on grain
Daimon,H.;Kang,Y.;Snyder,J.J.N.M.;etal.Eliminatingdissolution boundaries of monolayer transition metal dichalcogenides. Nano
ofplatinum-basedelectrocatalystsattheatomicscale.Nat.Mater.2020, Research2022,15(2),978−984.
19(11),1207−1214. (76)Lai,J.;Huang,B.;Chao,Y.;Chen,X.;Guo,S.J.A.M.Strongly
(65)Fu,H.Q.;Zhou,M.;Liu,P.F.;Liu,P.;Yin,H.;Sun,K.Z.;Yang, CoupledNickel-CobaltNitrides/CarbonHybridNanocageswithPt-
H.G.;Al-Mamun,M.;Hu,P.;Wang,H.-F.;etal.Hydrogenspillover- LikeActivityforHydrogenEvolutionCatalysis.Adv.Mater.2019,31
bridgedVolmer/Tafelprocessesenablingampere-levelcurrentdensity (2),1805541.
alkaline hydrogen evolution reaction under low overpotential. J. Am. (77)Kuttiyiel,K.A.;Sasaki,K.;Chen,W.-F.;Su,D.;Adzic,R.R.Core-
Chem.Soc.2022,144(13),6028−6039.Lao,M.;Li,P.;Jiang,Y.;Pan, shell, hollow-structured iridium-nickel nitride nanoparticles for the
H.; Dou, S. X.; Sun, W. From Fundamentals and Theories to hydrogenevolutionreaction.J.Mater.Chem.A2014,2(3),591−594.
HeterostructuredElectrocatalystDesign:AnIn-depthUnderstanding (78) Zhang,L.; Wang,T.; Sun, L.; Sun, Y.;Hu, T.; Xu,K.;Ma, F.
of Alkaline Hydrogen Evolution Reaction. Nano Energy 2022, 98, Hydrothermalsynthesisof3DhierarchicalMoSe2/NiSe2composite
107231. nanowires on carbon fiber paper and their enhanced electrocatalytic
7331 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
activityforthehydrogenevolutionreaction.J.Mater.Chem.A2017,5 MOFs-directed strategy: an efficient electrocatalyst for the hydrogen
(37),19752−19759. evolutionreaction.J.Mater.Chem.A2016,4(16),6006−6013.
(79)Wang,X.;Zheng,Y.;Yuan,J.;Shen,J.;Hu,J.;Wang,A.-j.;Wu,L.; (96)Cao,B.;Veith,G.M.;Neuefeind,J.C.;Adzic,R.R.;Khalifah,P.
Niu,L.J.E.A.PorousNiCodiselenidenanosheetsarrayedoncarbon G.Mixedclose-packedcobaltmolybdenumnitridesasnon-noblemetal
cloth as promising advanced catalysts used in water splitting. electrocatalystsforthehydrogenevolutionreaction.J.Am.Chem.Soc.
Electrochim.Acta2017,225,503−513. 2013,135(51),19186−19192.
(80)Chen,Q.;Wang,R.;Yu,M.;Zeng,Y.;Lu,F.;Kuang,X.;Lu,X.J. (97)Chen,W.F.;Schneider,J.M.;Sasaki,K.;Wang,C.H.;Schneider,
E.A.Bifunctionaliron-nickelnitridenanoparticlesasflexibleandrobust J.;Iyer,S.;Iyer,S.;Zhu,Y.;Muckerman,J.T.;Fujita,E.J.C.Tungsten
electrodeforoverallwatersplitting.Electrochim.Acta2017,247,666− carbide-nitride on graphene nanoplatelets as a durable hydrogen
673. evolutionelectrocatalyst.ChemSusChem2014,7(9),2414−2418.
(81)Chen,Y.;Zhang,J.;Guo,P.;Liu,H.;Wang,Z.;Liu,M.;Zhang, (98)Fang,Z.;Peng,L.;Qian,Y.;Zhang,X.;Xie,Y.;Cha,J.J.;Yu,G.
T.; Wang, S.; Zhou, Y.; Lu, X. J. A. a. m.; et al. interfaces. Coupled DualtuningofNi-Co-A(A=P,Se,O)nanosheetsbyanionsubstitution
heterostructure of Mo-Fe selenide nanosheets supported on carbon andholeyengineeringforefficienthydrogenevolution.J.Am. Chem.
paperasanintegratedelectrocatalystforefficienthydrogenevolution. Soc.2018,140(15),5241−5247.
ACSAppl.Mater.2018,10(33),27787−27794. (99) Wang, J.; Yang, W.; Liu, J. CoP 2 nanoparticles on reduced
(82)Zhang,N.;Cao,L.;Feng,L.;Huang,J.;Kajiyoshi,K.;Li,C.;Liu, grapheneoxide sheetsasasuper-efficientbifunctional electrocatalyst
Q.; Yang, D.; He, J. J. N. Co, N-Codoped porous vanadium nitride
forfullwatersplitting.J.Mater.Chem.A2016,4(13),4686−4690.
nanoplates as superior bifunctional electrocatalysts for hydrogen (100) Majhi, K. C.; Yadav, M. Fuels. Sphere-Shaped Bimetallic
Sulphoselenide: An Efficient Electrocatalyst for Hydrogen Evolution
evolution and oxygen reduction reactions. Nanoscale 2019, 11 (24),
11542−11549.
Reaction.Energy2021,35(15),12473−12481.Li,D.;Liao,L.;Zhou,
H.;Zhao,Y.;Cai,F.;Zeng,J.;Liu,F.;Wu,H.;Tang,D.;Yu,F.J.M.T.
(83)Read,C.G.;Callejas,J.F.;Holder,C.F.;Schaak,R.E.J.A.a.m.
P. Highly active non-noble electrocatalyst from Co2P/Ni2P nano-
interfaces. General strategy for the synthesis of transition metal
hybridsforpH-universalhydrogenevolutionreaction.MaterialsToday
phosphide films for electrocatalytic hydrogen and oxygen evolution.
Physics2021,16,100314.Hua,W.;Sun,H.-H.;Xu,F.;Wang,J.-G.J.R.
ACSappliedmaterials2016,8(20),12798−12803.
M.Areviewandperspectiveonmolybdenum-basedelectrocatalystsfor
(84)Pan,Y.;Lin,Y.;Chen,Y.;Liu,Y.;Liu,C.Cobaltphosphide-based
hydrogen evolution reaction. Rare Metals 2020, 39 (4), 335−351.
electrocatalysts:synthesisand phasecatalyticactivity comparisonfor
Zhang,W.;Cui,L.;Liu,J.J.J.o.A.Compounds.Recentadvancesin
hydrogenevolution.J.Mater.Chem.A2016,4(13),4745−4754.
cobalt-based electrocatalysts for hydrogen and oxygen evolution
(85)Wang,M.-Q.;Tang,C.;Ye,C.;Duan,J.;Li,C.;Chen,Y.;Bao,S.-
reactions.JournalofAlloys2020,821,153542.
J.; Xu, M. J. J. o. M. C. A. Engineering the nanostructure of
(101) Lin, F.; Dong, Z.; Yao, Y.; Yang, L.; Fang, F.; Jiao, L.
molybdenum nitride nanodot embedded N-doped porous hollow
Electrocatalytic hydrogen evolution of ultrathin Co-Mo5N6 hetero-
carbonnanochainsforrapidallpHhydrogenevolution.J.Mater.Chem.
junction with interfacial electron redistribution. Adv. Energy Mater.
A2018,6(30),14734−14741.
2020,10(42),2002176.
(86)Callejas,J.F.;McEnaney,J.M.;Read,C.G.;Crompton,J.C.;
(102)Zhang,F.;Shan,W.;Hu,Q.;Jiang,W.;Li,D.;Zhang,B.The
Biacchi,A.J.;Popczun,E.J.;Gordon,T.R.;Lewis,N.S.;Schaak,R.E.J.
EffectofMoAdditiononElectrocatalyticActivityandStabilityofFe-
A. n. Electrocatalytic and photocatalytic hydrogen production from
Co-PC Metallic Glasses for Hydrogen Evolution. J. Electrochem. Soc.
acidic and neutral-pH aqueous solutions using iron phosphide
2021, 168 (7), 076510. Pentland, N.; Bockris, J. M.; Sheldon, E.
nanoparticles.ACSNano2014,8(11),11101−11107.
Hydrogenevolutionreactiononcopper,gold,molybdenum,palladium,
(87)Liu,Y.;Kelly,T.G.;Chen,J.G.;Mustain,W.E.J.A.C.Metal
rhodium,andiron:mechanismandmeasurementtechniqueunderhigh
carbidesasalternativeelectrocatalystsupports.ACSCatal.2013,3(6),
purityconditions.J.Electrochem.Soc.1957,104(3),182.
1184−1194.
(103)Hu,X.;Tian,X.;Lin,Y.-W.;Wang,Z.J.R.a.Nickelfoamand
(88)Ramesh,R.;Nandi,D.K.;Kim,T.H.;Cheon,T.;Oh,J.;Kim,S.-
stainlesssteelmeshaselectrocatalystsforhydrogenevolutionreaction,
H.J.A.a.m.xsinterfaces.Atomic-layer-depositedMoNxthinfilmson
oxygenevolutionreactionandoverallwatersplittinginalkalinemedia.
three-dimensionalNifoamasefficientcatalystsfortheelectrochemical RSCAdv.2019,9(54),31563−31571.Lin,Y.;Sun,K.;Chen,X.;Chen,
hydrogen evolution reaction. ACS applied materials 2019, 11 (19),
C.;Pan,Y.;Li,X.;Zhang,J..High-precisionregulationsynthesisofFe-
17321−17332.
dopedCo2Pnanorodbundlesasefficientelectrocatalystsforhydrogen
(89)Zhou,Y.;Yang,Y.;Wang,R.;Wang,X.;Zhang,X.;Qiang,L.; evolutioninall-pHrangeandseawater.J.EnergyChem.2021,55,92−
Wang,W.;Wang,Q.;Hu,Z.RhombicporousCoP2nanowirearrays 101.
synthesized by alkaline etching as highly active hydrogen-evolution- (104)Mahmood,N.;Yao,Y.;Zhang,J.W.;Pan,L.;Zhang,X.;Zou,J.
reactionelectrocatalysts.J.Mater.Chem.A2018,6(39),19038−19046.
J. Electrocatalysts for hydrogen evolution in alkaline electrolytes:
(90)Jin,H.;Liu,X.;Vasileff,A.;Jiao,Y.;Zhao,Y.;Zheng,Y.;Qiao,S.- mechanisms, challenges, and prospective solutions. Adv. Sci. 2018, 5
Z. J. A. N. Single-crystal nitrogen-rich two-dimensional Mo5N6 (2),1700464.
nanosheets for efficient and stable seawater splitting. ACS Nano (105)AliShah,S.;Xu,L.;Sayyar,R.;Bian,T.;Liu,Z.;Yuan,A.;Shen,
2018,12(12),12761−12769. X.; Khan, I.; Ali Tahir, A.; Ullah, H. J. C. E. J. Growth of MoS2
(91)Yu,M.;Zhao,S.;Feng,H.;Hu,L.;Zhang,X.;Zeng,Y.;Tong,Y.; nanosheets on M@ N-doped carbon particles (M= Co, Fe or CoFe
Lu,X.J.A.E.L.EngineeringthinMoS2nanosheetsonTiNnanorods: Alloy) as an efficient electrocatalyst toward hydrogen evolution
advancedelectrochemicalcapacitorelectrodeandhydrogenevolution reaction.Chem.Eng.J.2022,428,132126.Li,Y.;Li,H.;Li,Y.;Peng,
electrocatalyst.ACSEnergyLett.2017,2(8),1862−1868. S.;Hu,Y..Fe-BalloycoupledwithFeclustersasanefficientcocatalyst
(92) Chen, T.; Tan, Y. J. N. R. Hierarchical CoNiSe2 nano- forphotocatalytichydrogenevolution.Chem.Eng.J.2018,344,506−
architecture as a high-performance electrocatalyst for water splitting. 513.
NanoResearch2018,11(3),1331−1344. (106) Müller, C. I.; Rauscher, T.; Schmidt, A.; Schubert, T.;
(93) Jiao, C.; Bo, X.; Zhou, M. J. J. o. E. C. Electrocatalytic water Weißgärber, T.; Kieback, B.; Röntzsch, L. Electrochemical inves-
splitting at nitrogen-doped carbon layers-encapsulated nickel cobalt tigations on amorphousFe-base alloysfor alkalinewater electrolysis.
selenide.J.EnergyChem.2019,34,161−170. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2014, 39 (17), 8926−8937. Schäfer, H.;
(94)Liang,C.;Ying,P.;Li,C.J.C.o.m.Nanostructuredβ-Mo2C Chatenet, M. J. A. E. L. Steel: the resurrection of a forgotten water-
preparedbycarbothermalhydrogenreductiononultrahighsurfacearea splittingcatalyst.ACSEnergyLett.2018,3(3),574−591.
carbonmaterial.Chemistryofmaterials2002,14(7),3148−3151. (107)Ekspong,J.;Wågberg,T.J.M.Stainlesssteelasabi-functional
(95)Shi,Z.;Wang,Y.;Lin,H.;Zhang,H.;Shen,M.;Xie,S.;Zhang,Y.; electrocatalyst�Atop-downapproach.Materials2019,12(13),2128.
Gao, Q.; Tang,Y. Porous nanoMoC@ graphite shell derivedfrom a Benavente Llorente, V.; Diaz, L. A.; Lacconi, G. I.; Abuin, G. C.;
7332 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
Franceschini,E.A.J.J.o.A.Compounds.EffectofdutycycleonNiMo ureaglassroute.JournalofMaterialsChemistryA2015,3(16),8361−
alloys prepared by pulsed electrodeposition for hydrogen evolution 8368.
reaction.J.AlloysCompounds2022,897,163161.Nandanapalli,K.R.; (117)Liu,W.;Wang,X.;Wang,F.;Du,K.;Zhang,Z.;Guo,Y.;Yin,H.;
Mudusu, D.; Karuppannan, R.; Hahn, Y.-B.; Lee, S. J. C. E. J. Wang, D. A durable and pH-universal self-standing MoC-Mo2C
PredominantlyenhancedcatalyticactivitiesofsurfaceprotectedZnO heterojunctionelectrodeforefficienthydrogenevolutionreaction.Nat.
nanorods integrated stainless-steel mesh structures: A synergistic Commun.2021,12(1),1−10.
impactonoxygenevolutionreactionprocess.Chem.Eng.J.2022,429, (118)Ji,X.;Wang,K.;Zhang,Y.;Sun,H.;Zhang,Y.;Ma,T.;Ma,Z.;
132360. Hu,P.;Qiu,Y.MoCbasedMott-Schottkyelectrocatalystforboosting
(108) Kim, M.; Ha, J.; Shin, N.; Kim, Y.-T.; Choi, J. J. E. A. Self- the hydrogen evolution reaction performance. Sustainable Energy &
activatedanodicnanoporousstainless steelelectrocatalystswithhigh Fuels2020,4(1),407−416.
durabilityforthehydrogenevolutionreaction.Electrochim.Acta2020, (119)Hu,W.;Zheng,M.;Xu,B.;Wei,Y.;Zhu,W.;Li,Q.;Pang,H.
364,137315. Design of hollow carbon-based materials derived from metal-organic
(109)Liu,X.;You,B.;Sun,Y.J.A.S.C.Engineering.Facilesurface frameworks for electrocatalysis and electrochemical energy storage.
modification of ubiquitous stainless steel led to competent electro- JournalofMaterialsChemistryA2021,9(7),3880−3917.
catalystsforoverallwatersplitting.ACSSustainableChemistry2017,5 (120) Chen, Y.; Li, T.; Zhao, Q.; Liu, D.; Li, C. M. The in situ
(6),4778−4784.Zayat,B.;Mitra,D.;Narayanan,S.R.Inexpensiveand preparation of iron phosphide using ionic liquids as iron and
efficientalkalinewaterelectrolyzerwithrobuststeel-basedelectrodes.J. phosphorus sources for efficient hydrogen evolution reactions. RSC
Electrochem.Soc.2020,167(11),114513.Gao,Y.;Xiong,T.;Li,Y.; Adv.2020,10(55),33026−33032.Zhou,Q.;Wang,D.3Dnanoporous
Huang,Y.;Li,Y.;Balogun,M.-S.J.T.Asimpleandscalableapproachto NiCoPasahighlyefficientelectrocatalystforthehydrogenevolution
remarkably boost the overall water splitting activity of stainless steel reaction in alkaline electrolyte. New J. Chem. 2022, 46 (16), 7490−
electrocatalysts.ACSOmega2019,4(14),16130−16138.
7496.
(110)Yang,C.;Zhao,R.;Xiang,H.;Wu,J.;Zhong,W.;Li,W.;Zhang, (121)Kumari,A.;Kaushal,S.;Singh,P.P.Bimetallicmetalorganic
Q.;Yang,N.;Li,X.Ni-activatedtransitionmetalcarbidesforefficient frameworks heterogeneous catalysts: Design, construction, and
hydrogenevolutioninacidicandalkalinesolutions.Adv.EnergyMater.
applications. Materials Today Energy 2021, 20, 100667.
2020, 10 (37), 2002260. Jun, H.; Kim, S.; Lee, J. Development
Sirisomboonchai, S.; Kitiphatpiboon, N.; Chen, M.; Li, S.; Li, X.;
strategiesintransitionmetalcarbideforhydrogenevolutionreaction:A
Kongparakul,S.;Samart,C.;Zhang,L.;Abudula,A.;Guan,G.Multi-
review. Korean Journal of Chemical Engineering 2020, 37 (8), 1317−
Hierarchical Porous Mn-Doped CoP Catalyst on Nickel Phosphide
1330.Peng,O.;Hu,Q.;Zhou,X.;Zhang,R.;Du,Y.;Li,M.;Ma,L.;Xi,
FoamforHydrogenEvolutionReaction.ACSAppl.EnergyMater.2022,
S.; Fu, W.; Xu, Z.-X.; et al. Swinging hydrogen evolution to nitrate
5(1),149−158.Park,Y.;Kang,H.;Hong,Y.-k.;Cho,G.;Choi,M.;
reductionactivityinmolybdenumcarbidebyrutheniumdoping.ACS
Cho, J.; Ha, D.-H. Influence of the phosphorus source on iron
Catal.2022,12(24),15045−15055.
phosphide nanoparticle synthesis for hydrogen evolution reaction
(111)Chen,P.;Ye,J.;Wang,H.;Ouyang,L.;Zhu,M.Recentprogress
catalysis.Int.J.HydrogenEnergy2020,45(57),32780−32788.
oftransitionmetalcarbides/nitridesforelectrocatalyticwatersplitting.
(122)Zhang,C.;Li,D.;Xu,Y.Mn-dopedNiP:Facilesynthesisand
J.AlloysCompd.2021,883,160833.He,C.;Tao,J.Transitionmetal
enhancedelectrocatalyticactivityforhydrogenevolution.J.Mater.Res.
carbidescoupledwithnitrogen-dopedcarbonasefficientandstableBi-
2022,37(3),807−817.
functional catalysts for oxygen reduction reaction and hydrogen
(123)Wang,Y.;Wang,Y.;Bai,J.;Lau,W.-M.TraceAmountofNiP2
evolution reaction. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2022, 47 (27), 13240−
Cooperative CoMoP Nanosheets Inducing Efficient Hydrogen
13250.
Evolution.ACSomega2021,6(48),33057−33066.
(112)Zhang,X.;Zhu,Z.;Liang,X.;Ma,F.-X.;Zhang,J.;Tan,Y.;Pan,
(124)Ge,L.;Yuan,H.;Min,Y.;Li,L.;Chen,S.;Xu,L.;GoddardIII,
Z.; Bo, Y.; Wu, C.-M. L. Encapsulating dual-phased Mo2C-WC
W.A.Predictedoptimalbifunctionalelectrocatalystsforthehydrogen
nanocrystals into ultrathin carbon nanosheet assemblies for efficient
evolution reaction and the oxygen evolution reaction using
electrocatalytichydrogenevolution.Chem.Eng.J.2021,408,127270.
chalcogenide heterostructures based on machine learning analysis of
Yan,P.;Wu,Y.;Wei,X.;Zhu,X.;Su,W.Preparationofrobusthydrogen
insilicoquantummechanicsbasedhighthroughputscreening.J.Phys.
evolutionreactionelectrocatalystWC/Cbymoltensalt.Nanomaterials
Chem.Lett.2020,11(3),869−876.
2020,10(9),1621.Hu,Z.;Chen,J.;Pan,P.;Liu,C.;Zeng,J.;Ou,Y.;
(125)Tseng,C.-A.;Lee,C.-P.TransitionMetalChalcogenidesforthe
Qi,X.;Liang,T.PorousN-dopedMo2C@Cnanoparticlesforhigh-
Electrocatalysis of Water. In Advanced Functional Materials; In-
performancehydrogenevolutionreaction.Int.J.HydrogenEnergy2022,
techOpen:London,2020.Iffelsberger,C.;Ng,S.;Pumera,M.Catalyst
47(7),4641−4652.
coatingof3Dprintedstructuresviaelectrochemicaldeposition:Caseof
(113)Lv,Z.;Liu,D.;Tian,W.;Dang,J.DesignedsynthesisofWC-
the transition metal chalcogenide MoSx for hydrogen evolution
basednanocompositesaslow-cost,efficientandstableelectrocatalysts
reaction. Appl. Mater. Today 2020, 20, 100654. Moschkowitsch, W.;
for the hydrogen evolution reaction. CrystEngComm 2020, 22 (27),
4580−4590. Lori,O.;Elbaz,L.RecentProgressandViabilityofPGM-FreeCatalysts
(114)Wang,F.;Wu,Y.;Dong,B.;Lv,K.;Shi,Y.;Ke,N.;Hao,L.;Yin, forHydrogenEvolutionReactionandHydrogenOxidationReaction.
L.; Bai, Y.; Xu, X.; et al. Robust Porous WC-Based Self-Supported
ACSCatal.2022,12(2),1082−1089.
Ceramic Electrodes for High Current Density Hydrogen Evolution (126)Ali,T.;Qiao,W.;Zhang,D.;Liu,W.;Sajjad,S.;Yan,C.;Su,R.
Reaction.Adv.Sci.2022,9,2106029.Huang,J.;Jian,C.;Cai,Q.;Hong, Surface sulfur vacancy engineering of metal sulfides promoted
W.; Liu, W. A large scale self-supported WP-W 2 C nanoporous desorptionofhydrogenatomsforenhancedelectrocatalytichydrogen
networkforefficienthydrogenevolutionreactioninalkalinemedia.J. evolution.J.Phys.Chem.C2021,125(23),12707−12712.Duraisamy,
Mater.Chem.A2022,10,10990. S.;Ganguly,A.;Sharma,P.K.;Benson,J.;Davis,J.;Papakonstantinou,
(115)Morishita,M.;Nozaki,A.;Yamamoto,H.;Fukumuro,N.;Mori, P.One-stephydrothermalsynthesisofphase-engineeredMoS2/MoO3
M.; Araki, K.; Sakamoto, F.; Nakamura, A.; Yanagita, H. Catalytic electrocatalysts for hydrogen evolution reaction. ACS Appl. Nano
activity of Co-nanocrystal-doped tungsten carbide arising from an Mater.2021,4(3),2642−2656.
internalmagneticfield.RSCAdv.2021,11(23),14063−14070.Tian, (127)Mei,X.;Li,C.; Lam,F.L.-Y.;Hu,X.Nanosheet-liketernary
D.; Denny, S. R.; Li, K.; Wang, H.; Kattel, S.; Chen, J. G. Density metal sulfide as a pH-universal catalyst for the hydrogen evolution
functional theory studies of transition metal carbides and nitrides as reaction.ACSAppl.EnergyMater.2020,3(7),6172−6179.Aslan,E.;
electrocatalysts.Chem.Soc.Rev.2021,50,12338. Yanalak, G.; Hatay Patir, I. Enhanced Hydrogen Evolution Reaction
(116)Ma,L.;Ting,L.R.L.;Molinari,V.;Giordano,C.;Yeo,B.S. Catalysis at Template-Free Liquid/Liquid Interfaces by In Situ
Efficient hydrogen evolution reaction catalyzed by molybdenum ElectrodepositedAmorphousMolybdenumSulfideonCarbonNano-
carbide and molybdenum nitride nanocatalysts synthesized via the tubes.ACSAppl.EnergyMater.2021,4(8),8330−8339.
7333 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
(128)Wang,S.;Huang,B.;Dai,Y.;Wei,W.OriginoftheEnhanced (139)Wu,P.;Sun,G.;Chen,Y.;Xu,W.;Zheng,H.;Xu,J.;Wang,L.;
Hydrogen Evolution Reaction Activity of Grain Boundaries in Peng, D.-L. MoSe2-Ni3Se4 hybrid nanoelectrocatalysts and their
MoS2Monolayers. J. Phys. Chem. C 2022, 126 (14), 6215−6222. enhanced electrocatalytic activity for hydrogen evolution reaction.
Zhou,W.;Dong,L.;Tan,L.;Tang,Q.First-principlesstudyofsulfur NanoscaleRes.Lett.2020,15(1),1−10.
vacancyconcentrationeffectontheelectronicstructuresandhydrogen (140)Hu,W.;Shi,Q.;Chen,Z.;Yin,H.;Zhong,H.;Wang,P.Co2N/
evolutionreactionofMoS2.Nanotechnology2021,32(14),145718. Co2Mo3O8 heterostructure as a highly active electrocatalyst for an
(129) He, M.; Kong, F.; Yin, G.; Lv, Z.; Sun, X.; Shi, H.; Gao, B. alkalinehydrogenevolutionreaction.ACSAppl.Mater.Interfaces2021,
Enhancedhydrogenevolutionreactionactivityofhydrogen-annealed 13(7),8337−8343.Dan,Z.;Liang,W.;Gong,X.;Lin,X.;Zhang,W.;
verticalMoS2nanosheets.RSCAdv.2018,8(26),14369−14376. Le, Z.; Xie, F.; Chen, J.; Yang, M.; Wang, N.; et al. Substitutional
(130)Zhu,J.;Tu,Y.;Cai,L.;Ma,H.;Chai,Y.;Zhang,L.;Zhang,W. Doping Engineering toward W2N Nanorod for Hydrogen Evolution
Defect-AssistedAnchoringofPtSingleAtomsonMoS2Nanosheets ReactionatHighCurrentDensity.ACSMater.Lett.2022,4(7),1374−
Produces High-Performance Catalyst for Industrial Hydrogen 1380.
Evolution Reaction. Small 2022, 18 (4), 2104824. Zheng, J.; Lu, L.; (141)Tong,R.;Xu,M.;Huang,H.;Zhang,C.;Ma,Y.;Wang,X.;Hu,
Lebedev,K.;Wu,S.;Zhao,P.;McPherson,I.J.;Wu,T.-S.;Kato,R.;Li, X.;Qu,Y.;Wang,S.;Pan,H.Co2N0.67/MoO2Heterostructureas
Y.;Ho,P.-L.;etal.Feonmolecular-layerMoS2asinorganicFe-S2-Mo High-EfficiencyElectrocatalystsfortheHydrogenEvolutionReaction.
motifs for light-driven nitrogen fixation to ammonia at elevated ACSAppl.EnergyMater.2022,5(1),440−448.Xing,Z.;Li,Q.;Wang,
temperatures.Chem.Catalysis2021,1(1),162−182. D.;Yang,X.;Sun,X.Self-supportednickelnitrideasanefficienthigh-
(131)Zheng,Z.;Yu,L.;Gao,M.;Chen,X.;Zhou,W.;Ma,C.;Wu,L.; performance three-dimensional cathode for the alkaline hydrogen
Zhu,J.;Meng,X.;Hu,J.;etal.BoostinghydrogenevolutiononMoS2 evolutionreaction.Electrochim.Acta2016,191,841−845.
via co-confining selenium in surface and cobalt in inner layer. Nat. (142)Zhou,W.;Huang,S.;Sun,C.Ni3Mo3Ncoupledwithnitrogen-
Commun.2020,11(1),1−10. richcarbonmicrospheresasanefficienthydrogenevolutionreaction
(132) Kazemi Korayem, A.; Ghamami, S.; Bahrami, Z. Fractal catalystandelectrochemicalsensorforH2O2detection.Int.J.Hydrogen
propertiesandmorphologicalinvestigationofnano-amiodaroneusing Energy2022,47(33),14906−14915.
imageprocessing.SignalImageVideoProcess.2019,13(2),281−287. (143)Park,S.H.;Kang,S.H.;Youn,D.H.DirectOne-StepGrowthof
Guo,B.;Yu,K.;Li,H.;Qi,R.;Zhang,Y.;Song,H.;Tang,Z.;Zhu,Z.; Bimetallic Ni2Mo3N on Ni Foam as an Efficient Oxygen Evolution
Chen,M.Coral-shapedMoS2decoratedwithgraphenequantumdots Electrocatalyst.Materials2021,14(16),4768.
performing as a highly active electrocatalyst for hydrogen evolution (144)Wang,C.;Lv,X.;Zhou,P.;Liang,X.;Wang,Z.;Liu,Y.;Wang,
reaction.ACSAppl.Mater.Interfaces2017,9(4),3653−3660.Park,T.; P.;Zheng,Z.;Dai,Y.;Li,Y.Molybdenumnitrideelectrocatalystsfor
Bae,C.;Lee,H.;Leem,M.;Kim,H.;Ahn,W.;Kim,J.;Lee,E.;Shin,H.; hydrogen evolution more efficient than platinum/carbon: Mo2N/
Kim,H.Non-equilibriumfractalgrowthofMoS2forelectrocatalytic CeO2@ nickel foam. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2020, 12 (26),
hydrogenevolution.CrystEngComm2019,21(3),478−486.Kazemi 29153−29161.
Korayem, A.; Ghamami, S.; Bahrami, Z. Fractal properties and (145)Balaji,D.;Madhavan,J.;AlSalhi,M.S.;Aljaafreh,M.J.;Prasad,
morphological investigation of Nano hydrochlorothiazide is used to S.; Show, P. L. Carbon supported Ni3N/Ni heterostructure for
treathypertension.BMCPharmacol.Toxicol.2018,19,1−9. hydrogen evolution reaction in both acid and alkaline media. Int. J.
(133)Ge,Y.;Shi,Z.;Tan,C.;Chen,Y.;Cheng,H.;He,Q.;Zhang,H. HydrogenEnergy2021,46(60),30739−30749.
Two-dimensional nanomaterials with unconventional phases. Chem. (146)Zhang,J.;Zhang,L.;Du,L.;Xin,H.L.;Goodenough,J.B.;Cui,
2020,6(6),1237−1253.Ma,X.;Yang,J.;Xu,X.;Yang,H.;Peng,C. Z. Composition-Tunable Antiperovskite CuxIn1- xNNi3 as Superior
NiSe/Ni 3 Se 2 on nickel foam as an ultra-high-rate HER ElectrocatalystsfortheHydrogenEvolutionReaction.Angew.Chem.,
electrocatalyst: common anion heterostructure with built-in electric Int.Ed.2020,59(40),17488−17493.
fieldandefficientinterfacialchargetransfer.RSCAdv.2021,11(55), (147)Dastafkan,K.;Shen,X.;Hocking,R.K.;Meyer,Q.;Zhao,C.
34432−34439. Monometallic interphasic synergy via nano-hetero-interfacing for
(134)Deng,W.;Xie,W.;Li,D.;Gai,Y.;Chen,Z.;Yu,J.;Yang,R.;Bao, hydrogen evolution in alkaline electrolytes. Nat. Commun. 2023, 14
X.; Jiang, F. Controllable tuning of polymetallic Co-Ni-Ru-S-Se (1),547.
ultrathinnanosheetstoboostelectrocatalyticoxygenevolution.NPG (148) Wang, H.-F.; Chen, L.; Pang, H.; Kaskel, S.; Xu, Q. MOF-
AsiaMater.2022,14(1),1−13. derived electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction, oxygen evolution and
(135)Wang,K.;Lin,Z.;Tang,Y.;Tang,Z.;Tao,C.-L.;Qin,D.-D.; hydrogen evolution reactions. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2020, 49 (5), 1414−
Tian, Y. Selenide/sulfide heterostructured NiCo2Se4/NiCoS4 for 1448.Sahu,N.;Das,J.K.;Behera,J.NiSe2NanoparticlesEncapsulated
oxygenevolutionreaction,hydrogenevolutionreaction,watersplitting in N-Doped Carbon Matrix Derived from a One-Dimensional Ni-
and Zn-air batteries. Electrochim. Acta 2021, 368, 137584. Pang, Y.; MOF: An Efficient and Sustained Electrocatalyst for Hydrogen
Zhu, S.; Cui, Z.; Liang, Y.; Li, Z.; Wu, S. Self-supported amorphous Evolution Reaction. Inorg. Chem. 2022, 61 (6), 2835−2845.
nanoporous nickel-cobalt phosphide catalyst for hydrogen evolution Aleksandrzak, M.; Sielicki, K.; Mijowska, E. Enhancement of photo-
reaction. Progress in Natural Science: Materials International 2021, 31 catalytichydrogenevolutionwithcatalystsbasedoncarbonizedMOF-5
(2),201−206. andgC3N4.RSCAdv.2020,10(7),4032−4039.
(136)Xiao,D.;Bao,D.-L.;Liang,X.;Wang,Y.;Shen,J.;Cheng,C.; (149) Wang, X.; Maeda, K.; Thomas, A.; Takanabe, K.; Xin, G.;
Chu,P.K.Experimentalandtheoreticalinvestigationofthecontroland Carlsson, J. M.; Domen, K.; Antonietti, M. A metal-free polymeric
balance of active sites on oxygen plasma-functionalized MoSe2 photocatalystforhydrogenproductionfromwaterundervisiblelight.
nanosheets for efficient hydrogen evolution reaction. Appl. Catal. B: Naturematerials2009,8(1),76−80.Sprick,R.S.;Bonillo,B.;Clowes,
Environmental2021,288,119983. R.;Guiglion,P.;Brownbill,N.J.;Slater,B.J.;Blanc,F.;Zwijnenburg,M.
(137) Chang, Y.; Chen, C.; Ho, C.; Cheng, C.; Chen, H.; Fu, T.; A.;Adams,D.J.;Cooper,A.I.Visible-light-drivenhydrogenevolution
Huang,Y.;Ke,S.;Du,H.;Lee,K.;etal.Surfaceelectronaccumulation usingplanarizedconjugatedpolymerphotocatalysts.Angew.Chem.,Int.
and enhanced hydrogen evolution reaction in MoSe2 basal planes. Ed.2016,55(5),1792−1796.Rahman,M.Z.;Davey,K.;Qiao,S.-Z.
NanoEnergy2021,84,105922. Carbon,nitrogenandphosphoruscontainingmetal-freephotocatalysts
(138)Yang,X.;Liu,W.;Han,C.;Zhao,C.;Tang,H.;Liu,Q.;Xu,J. forhydrogen production: progressand challenges. J. Mater. Chem. A
Mechanistic insights into charge carrier dynamics in MoSe2/CdS 2018,6(4),1305−1322.Gopi,S.;Panda,A.;Ramu,A.;Theerthagiri,
heterojunctions for boosted photocatalytic hydrogen evolution. J.;Kim,H.;Yun,K.J.Bifunctionalelectrocatalystsforwatersplitting
MaterialsTodayPhysics2020,15,100261.Ruqia,B.;Kabiraz,M.K.; fromabimetallic(Vdoped-NixFey)Metal-OrganicframeworkMOF@
Hong,J.W.;Choi,S.-I.Catalystactivation:Surfacedopingeffectsof Graphene oxide composite. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2022, 47, 42122.
groupVItransitionmetaldichalcogenidestowardshydrogenevolution Liu,Y.;Cheng,H.;Cheng,M.;Liu,Z.;Huang,D.;Zhang,G.;Shao,B.;
reactioninacidicmedia.J.EnergyChem.2022,72,217. Liang,Q.;Luo,S.;Wu,T.J.C.E.J.;etal.TheapplicationofZeolitic
7334 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

ACSOmega http://pubs.acs.org/journal/acsodf Review
imidazolateframeworks(ZIFs)andtheirderivativesbasedmaterialsfor (159)Li,Y.;Ai,C.;Deng,S.;Wang,Y.;Tong,X.;Wang,X.;Xia,X.;
photocatalytic hydrogen evolution and pollutants treatment. Chem. Tu,J.Nitrogendopedverticalgrapheneasmetal-freeelectrocatalystfor
Eng.J.2021,417,127914. hydrogenevolutionreaction.Mater.Res.Bull.2021,134,111094.
(150)Zhu,B.;Qu,C.;Gao,S.;Liang,Z.;Zhang,H.;Zou,R.J.C.
Ultralow Loading Ruthenium Nanoparticles on Nitrogen-Doped
Graphene Aerogel for Trifunctional Electrocatalysis. ChemCatChem.
2018,10(5),1113−1121.Zhu,B.;Wen,D.;Liang,Z.;Zou,R.J.C.C.
R. Conductive metal-organic frameworks for electrochemical energy
conversionandstorage.Coord.Chem.Rev.2021,446,214119.
(151)Gao,H.;Shen,H.;Wu,H.;Jing,H.;Sun,Y.;Liu,B.;Chen,Z.;
Song,J.;Lu,L.;Wu,Z.J.E.;etal.ReviewofPristineMetal-Organic
Frameworks for Supercapacitors: Recent Progress and Perspectives.
EnergyFuels2021,35(16),12884−12901.Qiu,T.;Gao,S.;Liang,Z.;
Wang,D.G.;Tabassum,H.;Zhong,R.;Zou,R.J.A.C.I.E.Pristine
Hollow Metal-Organic Frameworks: Design, Synthesis and Applica-
tion.Angew.Chem.,Int.Ed.2021,60,17314.
(152) Sonowal, K.; Saikia, L. Metal-organic frameworks and their
compositesforfuelandchemicalproductionviaCO2conversionand
watersplitting.RSCAdv.2022,12(19),11686−11707.Li,P.;Zheng,
D.; Gao, M.; Zuo, X.; Sun, L.; Zhou, Q.; Lin, J. Bimetallic MOF-
Templated Fabrication of Porous Zn, N Co-doped Mo2C for an
EfficientHydrogenEvolutionReaction.ACSAppl.EnergyMater.2021,
4(9),8875−8882.Zheng,H.-b.;Chen,H.-h.;Wang,Y.-l.;Gao,P.-z.;
Liu, X.-p.; Rebrov, E. V. Fabrication of magnetic superstructure
NiFe2O4@ MOF-74 and its derivative for electrocatalytic hydrogen
evolutionwithACmagneticfield.ACSAppl.Mater.Interfaces2020,12
(41),45987−45996.
(153) Ao, K.; Wei, Q.; Daoud, W. A. MOF-derived sulfide-based
electrocatalyst and scaffold for boosted hydrogen production. ACS
Appl.Mater.Interfaces2020,12(30),33595−33602.Qi,W.;Wang,C.;
Yu,J.;Adimi,S.;Thomas,T.;Guo,H.;Liu,S.;Yang,M.MOF-Derived
PorousTernaryNickelIronNitrideNanocubeasaFunctionalCatalyst
toward Water Splitting Hydrogen Evolution for Solar to Chemical
EnergyConversion.ACSAppl.EnergyMater.2022,5,6155.
(154)Kazemi,A.;Moghadaskhou,F.;Pordsari,M.A.;Manteghi,F.;
Tadjarodi,A.;Ghaemi,A.EnhancedCO2capturepotentialofUiO-66-
NH2synthesizedbysonochemicalmethod:experimentalfindingsand
performance evaluation. Sci. Rep. 2023, 13 (1), 19891.
Ramezanalizadeh,H.;Manteghi,F.Mixedcobalt/nickelmetal-organic
framework, an efficient catalyst for one-pot synthesis of substituted
imidazoles.MonatsheftefürChemie-ChemicalMonthly2017,148,347−
355. Ramezanalizadeh, H.; Manteghi, F. Synthesis of a novel MOF/
CuWO4 heterostructure for efficient photocatalytic degradation and
removalofwaterpollutants.JournalofCleanerProduction2018,172,
2655−2666.Abhari,P.S.;Manteghi,F.;Tehrani,Z.Adsorptionoflead
ionsbyagreenAC/HKUST-1nanocomposite.Nanomaterials2020,10
(9),1647.
(155)Li,Y.-W.;Wu,Q.;Ma,R.-C.;Sun,X.-Q.;Li,D.-D.;Du,H.-M.;
Ma,H.-Y.;Li,D.-C.;Wang,S.-N.;Dou,J.-M.ACo-MOF-derivedCo9
S 8@ NS-C electrocatalyst for efficient hydrogen evolution reaction.
RSCAdv.2021,11(11),5947−5957.Sun,Y.;Xue,Z.;Liu,Q.;Jia,Y.;
Li,Y.;Liu,K.;Lin,Y.;Liu,M.;Li,G.;Su,C.-Y.Modulatingelectronic
structure of metal-organic frameworks by introducing atomically
dispersed Ru for efficient hydrogen evolution. Nat. Commun. 2021,
12(1),1369.
(156)Yan,L.;Cao,L.;Dai,P.;Gu,X.;Liu,D.;Li,L.;Wang,Y.;Zhao,
X.J.A. F.M. Metal-organicframeworksderivednanotubeof nickel-
cobaltbimetalphosphidesashighlyefficientelectrocatalystsforoverall
watersplitting.Adv.Funct.Mater.2017,27(40),1703455.
(157)Hao,X.;Jin,Z.;Yang,H.;Lu,G.;Bi,Y.J.A.C.B.E.Peculiar
synergetic effect of MoS2 quantum dots and graphene on Metal-
Organic Frameworks for photocatalytic hydrogen evolution. Appl.
Catal.B.:Environ.2017,210,45−56.
(158) Zhen, W.; Ma, J.; Lu, G. Small-sized Ni (1 1 1) particles in
metal-organic frameworks with low over-potential for visible photo-
catalytichydrogengeneration.Appl.Catal.B:Environmental2016,190,
12−25.
7335 https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.3c07911
ACSOmega2024,9,7310−7335

