Modeling-Making-Modulating High-Entropy Alloy
with Activated Water-Dissociation Centers for
Superior Electrocatalysis
Ho Ngoc Nam,1 Ravi Nandan,2* Lei Fu,1 Yingji Zhao,1 Yunqing Kang,1 Tetsuya
Fukushima,3 Kazunori Sato,4 Yusuke Asakura,1 Ovidiu Cretu,5 Jun Kikkawa,5 Joel
Henzie,2 Jonathan P. Hill,2 Takeshi Yanai,6,7 Quan Manh Phung,6,7* and Yusuke
Yamauchi1,8*
1Department of Materials Process Engineering, Graduate School of Engineering,
Nagoya University, Furu-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464–8603, Japan.
2Research Center for Materials Nanoarchitectonics, National Institute for Materials
Science (NIMS), 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305–0044, Japan.
3National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), 1-1-1
Umezono, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8560, Japan.
4Division of Materials and Manufacturing Science, Graduate School of Engineering,
Osaka University, 2-1 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.
5Center for Basic Research on Materials, National Institute for Materials Science (NIMS),
Namiki 1-1, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan.
6Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, Nagoya University, Furu-cho,
Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464–8602, Japan.
7Institute of Transformative Bio-Molecules (WPI-ITbM), Nagoya University, Furu-cho,
Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464–8601, Japan.
8School of Chemical Engineering and Australian Institute for Bioengineering and
Nanotechnology (AIBN), The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD 4072, Australia.
Corresponding Authors
Email: nandan.ravi@nims.go.jp (R. Nandan, orcid.org/0000-0001-9244-3594)
Email: quan.phung@chem.nagoya-u.ac.jp (Q. M. Phung, orcid.org/0000-0001-8205-5328)
Email: y.yamauchi@uq.edu.au (Y. Yamauchi, orcid.org/0000-0001-7854-927X)
1

Abstract
High-entropy alloys have recently emerged as promising electrocatalysts for complex reactions owing to
their tunable electronic structures and diverse, unique binding sites. However, their vast compositional space,
both in terms of elemental variety and atomic ratios, presents a major challenge to the rational design of
high-performance catalysts, as experimental efforts are often hindered by ambiguous element selection and
inefficient trial-and-error methods. In this work, a bottom-up research strategy using machine learning-
assisted first-principles calculations was applied to accelerate the design of quinary high-entropy alloys
toward efficient multi-electron transfer reactions. Here, we report the design of PtPdRhRuMo, which exhibits
key physicochemical properties favoring methanol oxidation reaction. Notably, the incorporation of Mo as
the fifth element significantly activates specific binding sites on HEA surfaces, enhancing methanol
adsorption and, in particular, water dissociation ability. This facilitates hydroxyl species formation, which
effectively mitigates CO intermediate adherence while promoting the complete oxidation of CH3OH to CO2
via alternative reaction pathways. Guided by theoretical predictions, experimental samples with different
morphologies of mesoporous PtPdRhRuMo catalyst (m-HEANP(Mo) nanoparticles and m-HEAF(Mo) thin
film) were then synthesized, demonstrating superior electrocatalysis with a large current density of up to
18.20 mA cm-2 and mass activity of 9.89 A mgPt -1, alongside the long-term durability for efficient methanol
electrooxidation applications.
KEYWORDS: High-entropy alloys; Electrocatalyst; Machine learning; Mesoporous nanostructure;
CO poisoning; Water dissociation; DFT calculations; Methanol oxidation
2

Introduction
Platinum-group metals (PGMs) are widely recognized in electrocatalytic processes for their exceptional
activity and chemical stability1. However, these single metallic systems could only perform a specific reaction
and often expose limitations in complex reactions requiring multiple electron transfer steps, such as the
methanol oxidation reaction (MOR) involving six-electron transfers. While Pt is the most active commercial
catalyst for MOR, its catalytic performance is largely hindered by susceptibility to CO poisoning, a notorious
intermediate that blocks Pt active sites, resulting in a gradual decline in efficiency over time2–4. Therefore,
developing electrocatalysts with optimal performance and good CO-resistance is essential for methanol
conversion applications. Current strategies suggest alloying Pt with other transition metals might address
these challenges2–6.
Despite their relatively recent emergence in 2004, high-entropy alloys (HEAs) have rapidly gained significant
attention in the catalysis field7–9. The integration of five or more metal elements in HEAs not only fine-tunes
the electronic structure but also creates random atomic arrangements, providing distinct and diverse surface
binding sites that significantly enhance catalytic activity compared to single metals, binary alloys, and
medium-entropy alloys (MEAs)9. Additionally, their diverse atomic environment produces a complex energy
landscape, leading to a sluggish diffusion effect that mitigates degradation and dissolution over time more
effectively than single-metal catalysts8. Since multiple elements of HEA can work synergistically, its
performance and functionality are highly promising for complex reactions like MOR. Nevertheless, current
research on HEAs electrocatalysts has primarily focused on experimental efforts4,10–12, often with unclear
and somewhat random element selection. It was reported that catalysts containing Pt/Pd are efficient for
oxygen reduction and hydrogen evolution reactions13,14, while Ru/Ir-involved excels in oxygen evolution
reactions15,16, and Cu-involved is particularly effective for CO2 reduction reactions17. Compared to these
reactions, the MOR process is less well understood due to the complicated reaction pathways with various
intermediates2 (dual CO- and CO-free pathways, see Figure S1). This leaves questions about the roles of
elements and which combinations are optimal for achieving efficient MOR performance. While tailoring
atomic ratios could further enhance catalytic performance, the vast compositional space of HEAs poses an
additional challenge. For instance, varying the composition of each metal in a five-element HEA from 2-92%
in 2% increments results in 211,876 possible combinations. Experimentally exploring such a large number
of possibilities is both expensive and unrealistic if based solely on human chemical intuition. To reduce
experimental trial and error efforts, a tight combination between first-principles calculations and machine
learning techniques is essential in unveiling the catalytic process and guiding material design, significantly
accelerating the exploration of HEA catalysts in a more effective way.
In this work, we perform a bottom-up strategy to design high-performance HEA electrocatalysts, progressing
from computational quantum simulations to experimental lab validation (see Figure 1a). Theoretical design
begins with selecting critical elements that form the basis of the alloy. Four PGM elements, i.e., Pt, Pd, Rh,
and Ru, were chosen for their high catalytic activity, similar atomic radii and electronegativity, and their ability
3

to form a stable, well-mixed solid solution with a face-centered cubic (fcc) structure. To achieve high MOR
performance, the fifth element, X, was screened from a pool of neighboring elements (i.e., Ir, Os, Au, Cu, Ni,
Mo, and Cd) with similar characteristics to render durability and create multi-active centers leveraging the
high entropy effects of the quinary alloy PtPdRhRuX. These selected elements are feasible for co-reduction
and alloy formation using our low-temperature synthesis yet ensure diverse electronic and chemical
properties, spanning noble metals (Ir, Os, Au), non-noble transition metals (Ni, Cu), an early transition metal
(Mo), and a post-transition metal (Cd). Guided by machine learning-assisted first-principles predictions, the
PtPdRhRuMo alloy was identified as the most promising high-entropy alloy candidate, featuring numerous
physicochemical properties favorable for MOR applications. These theoretical predictions were
subsequently translated into experimental testing, confirming the superior electrochemical performance of
PtPdRhRuMo. Accordingly, the quinary HEA-PtPdRhRuMo catalysts demonstrated not only remarkable
long-term durability (maintaining approximately 48% of their initial activity after 10,000 s) but also high
catalytic performance, with electric current values of up to 18.20 mA/cm2 and 9.89 A mgPt -1 for the film sample,
and 12.02 mA/cm2 and 7.70 A mgPt -1 for the nanoparticle sample. These results significantly outperform
those of high entropy alloys based on other metals, medium-entropy alloy counterparts, commercial Pt-C,
and the most recently reported Pt-based catalytic systems for efficient methanol electrooxidation applications.
Results and discussion
Computational screening of PtPdRhRuX electrocatalysts
4

Figure 1. Designing process of potential HEA electrocatalysts for MOR. (a) Schematic illustration of
designing quinary HEA-PtPdRhRuX for superior electrocatalysis, leveraging machine learning-assisted
theoretical predictions to experimental validations. (b-e) Computational screening on promising HEA
electrocatalysts for the MOR using descriptors of catalyst’s electrical resistivity (b), Gibbs free energy of key
adsorbates: (c) CH3OH, (d) CO, and (e) COOH on PtPdRhRuX surface (X = Ir, Os, Mo, Ni, Au, Cu, and Cd).
We initiated the design process by systematically screening the fifth element (X) in the quinary alloy
PtPdRhRuX, taking into account potential candidates such as Ir, Os, Au, Cu, Ni, Mo, and Cd. The first step
was to determine whether these alloys could form stable solid solutions. Based on valence electron
concentration (VEC) analysis18, the combination of these elements with the four PGMs supports the
formation of single-phase solid solutions with an fcc structure (VEC > 8, Figure S2). This was further
confirmed by calculated phase formation energies, which indicate a strong preference for fcc structure
formation thermodynamically over body-centered cubic (bcc) for all seven HEAs (Figure S2). Furthermore,
the stability of single-phase solid solutions in HEAs is facilitated by small atomic radius differences (δ) among
the constituent metals and a sufficiently large ratio of configurational mixing entropy to mixing enthalpy (Ω).
As shown in Figure S3, the calculated δ and Ω values of the seven HEAs configurations fall well within the
critical conditions of Ω ≥ 1.1 and δ ≤ 8.5%18,19. This suggests a high probability of forming a single-phase
solid solution for all HEA candidates. Having verified the stability, the catalytic activity of prospective HEAs
was considered. Identifying optimal mechanisms and the best HEA electrocatalyst for MOR is a challenging
task due to the wide range of possible intermediates. It is well accepted that methanol oxidation involves six
5

electron transfer steps and follows a dual-pathway mechanism (Figure S1), where the CO-pathway is
considered more energetically favorable2–4,20,21. Therefore, during the screening stage, only reactions
proceeding via the CO-pathway were evaluated (detailed reaction pathways are illustrated in Figure S4,
Table S1). In order to select a suitable HEA candidate, we defined key criteria for achieving optimal MOR
performance: (i) sufficiently low electrical resistivity to facilitate the charge transfer process between the
catalyst’s active sites and reactants; (ii) strong adsorption capability for CH3OH to ensure effective reaction
progression; (iii) high resistance to CO poisoning to maintain long-term durability; and (iv) excellent water-
dissociation ability to accelerate the oxidation reactions rate. In Figure 1b-e, the MOR activity of all HEA
candidates based on those criteria was collected.
Previous reports have indicated that the poor conductivity of catalysts can limit their electrocatalytic
activity22,23. A low enough electrical resistivity, therefore, is crucial to favor efficient electron transfer and
enhance overall catalytic efficiency. We found that incorporating elements like Cd, Au, or Cu into the HEA
increased electrical resistivity due to the significant reduction of electron lifetimes, driven by strong impurity
scattering effects occurring near the Fermi level (Figure S5). In contrast, alloying with elements such as Ir,
Os, Ni, or Mo resulted in lower resistivity, suggesting these combinations could be more favorable for
electrocatalysis (Figure 1b). Furthermore, in real reaction environments, water and byproducts can compete
with methanol for adsorption on the active sites. A catalyst with a strong affinity for methanol ensures
selective adsorption, maintaining a high local concentration of methanol and facilitating efficient oxidation.
Accordingly, Mo-based HEA demonstrates significantly more negative free energy of CH3OH adsorption
compared to other elements (by 0.1-0.2 eV, Figure 1c). However, what truly sets Mo apart is its exceptional
resistance to CO poisoning. Specifically, Mo-based systems exhibit the weakest adsorption tendency for CO
intermediates among the investigated HEAs, with an adsorption free energy of −1.6 eV (Figure 1d). On the
other hand, its adsorption of COOH intermediates is significantly stronger than that of the other HEAs, with
an adsorption free energy of at least −1.2 eV, compared to −0.75 eV on the Cd-based HEA and −1.1 eV on
the Ir-based system (Figure 1e). This trend suggests that CO hydroxylation to COOH on the Mo-based HEA
is highly efficient, effectively preventing CO accumulation and ensuring sustained catalytic activity. By taking
all these factors into account, we eventually identified the HEA-PtPdRhRuMo compound as the most suitable
quinary alloy for the methanol oxidation application.
Unveiling efficient catalytic mechanism and elemental roles of PtPdRhRuMo
6

Figure 2. DFT Modelling of the MOR process on three Pt-based catalysts. (a-c) Potential energy landscapes
for methanol adsorption on (a) single Pt(111), (b) MEA-PtPdRhRu(111), and (c) HEA-PtPdRhRuMo(111)
surfaces (random area of 5.5 nm2), where the energy difference (ΔE) referred to maximum energy points.
(d) Gibbs free energy diagrams of all possible pathways on these catalyst surfaces, with the * denoting
adsorbed species. (e) Snapshot at 9 ps from AIMD simulations and water density profile along the z-axis,
showing the interaction of water with catalysts in the interfacial region at room temperature. Water molecule
positions are represented by oxygen atom coordinates. The zero point in the z-axis corresponds to the
average of the nuclear position of the top surface atoms. The bulk water concentration is 0.056 mol/cm3. (f)
Free energy diagram of water adsorption and (g) water dissociation steps on three catalysts. (h) Water
scanning maps highlighting water trapping centers on the surface of the three Pt-based catalysts.
To explore the catalytic activity of HEA-PtPdRhRuMo and further elucidate the role of the fifth element, Mo,
its MOR performance was compared with medium-entropy alloy (MEA) PtPdRhRu and single-Pt catalysts
(Table S2). Figure 2a-c illustrates the potential energy landscapes for methanol adsorption on these
surfaces. The single-Pt catalyst surface exhibits a uniform potential energy distribution with a small energy
difference (~0.3 eV) between preferred and non-preferred adsorption sites (Figure 2a). In contrast, the
potential energy surface of MEA-PtPdRhRu is more complicated, featuring numerous adsorption sites with
varied energy minima distributed across the surface (Figure 2b). Here, the energy differences at preferred
adsorption sites can reach ~0.9 eV, indicating an enhanced likelihood of methanol being attracted and
trapped in these regions. Likewise, the HEA system not only presents diverse adsorption sites, but its surface
also offers the most favorable adsorption centers, with an energy difference of approximately 1.1 eV relative
7

to other sites (Figure 2c). This finding is further supported by the Gibbs free energy diagrams of MOR
pathways, as shown in Figure 2d. Methanol capturing ability increases significantly in the order Pt < MEA <
HEA, with average adsorption free energies of −0.32 eV, −0.52 eV, and −0.76 eV, respectively. This
tendency even persists through subsequent dehydrogenation steps, including both C–H [*CH3OH →
*CH2OH + (H+ + e–) → *CHOH + 2(H+ + e–) → *COH + 3(H+ + e–)] and O–H [*CH3OH → *CH3O + (H+ + e–)
→ *CH2O + 2(H+ + e–) → *CHO + 3(H+ + e–)] bond scission pathways. The HEA surface demonstrates
superior catalytic activity with the most negative free energies. The significant energy differences between
adsorption sites may stem from surface charge redistribution among atoms (Figure S6). In MEA, valence
electrons are drawn toward more electronegative elements like Pt and Pd (electron acceptors), forming
electron-deficient regions on Rh and especially Ru (electron donors). On the HEA surface, charge
accumulation around Pt, Pd, and Rh increases significantly, while Mo, due to its lowest electronegativity,
serves as the primary electron donor, followed by Ru. Beyond oxophilicity, the substantial electron-deficient
regions on these atoms readily accept electrons from adsorbates (thereby attracting them), stabilizing the
surface by filling empty orbitals.
The crucial mechanistic step controlling the overall MOR performance efficiency is believed to be related to
*CO. Across all surfaces, we found that *CO adsorbates indeed have the lowest free energy among the
intermediates, indicating their pronounced stability and the inevitable risk of *CO poisoning. This
underscores the importance of designing catalysts with either weak CO binding or a strong ability to resolve
*CO to ensure efficient MOR activity. On the Pt surface, however, the depoisoning process is poorly
performed. The hydroxylation step of *CO + OH → *COOH is strongly endergonic (ΔG = 0.7 eV), indicating
its high susceptibility to CO poisoning, as reported in previous experiments3,4,11,20,21. Notably, the free energy
difference of this step becomes smaller on the MEA surface (ΔG = 0.62 eV) while reaching its minimum
value on the HEA surface (ΔG = 0.35 eV), revealing a great enhancement of *CO hydroxylation. This should
be related to the ability of the catalyst surface to adsorb water. The greater the attraction of H2O molecules
to the catalyst surface, the more *OH species are likely generated to react with *CO, which facilitates the
oxidation process. To clarify this, Ab Initio Molecular Dynamics (AIMD) simulations at room temperature
were conducted to investigate interactions between the catalyst surfaces and the water adlayer. In Figure
2e, we presented the water density profile along the z-axis, averaged over nine ns of AIMD simulations at
room temperature. On the Pt(111) surface, the profile aligns well with previous studies24,25, with two sharp
peaks at around 2.25 and 2.95 Å from the surface. On the MEA and HEA surfaces, the water density profiles
are similar, though both surfaces show a slightly higher water density at the first peak. Furthermore, the
profile on the HEA surface displays a minor peak at 1.9 Å, indicating an enhanced affinity of the HEA surface
towards water. This observation is corroborated by the more negative adsorption free energy of water on
the HEA surface (−0.514 eV), compared to the MEA (−0.215 eV) and Pt (−0.02 eV) surfaces (Figure 2f).
After adsorption, the water dissociation process (*H2O → *H–*OH) was also found to be more
8

thermodynamically and kinetically favorable on the HEA surface (Figure 2g). Specifically, on the HEA
surface, the reaction is exergonic (of around −1.2 eV) with a low activation free energy barrier of 0.24 eV. In
contrast, the reactions on the MEA and Pt surfaces are endergonic, exhibiting significantly higher activation
energy of 0.61 and 0.72 eV, respectively. The large reduction in activation free energy on the HEA surface
is attributed to the stronger bonding of the *H and *OH species on the HEA surface, as described by the
Evans–Polanyi principle. To highlight the active sites responsible for water adsorption, the scanning maps
of water on the surfaces were plotted (Figure 2h). Unlike the monometallic system where Pt plays multiple
roles, Ru atoms are believed to be crucial active centers responsible for water trapping on the MEA surface.
Meanwhile, Mo and its vicinity regions to Ru show a strong affinity for water molecules, suggesting their
crucial role as the primary activated centers for water adsorption-dissociation on the HEA surface.
Furthermore, the superior water dissociation ability of PtPdRhRuMo facilitates methanol oxidation via CO-
free pathways. Specifically, alternative routes requiring the accompaniment of OH radicals [ i.e., *CH2O +
OH → *H2COOH, *CHO + OH → *HCOOH, and *COH + OH → *C(OH)2] exhibit significantly more stability
(more negative free energies) on the HEA surface. This is reasonable owing to the oxyphilic nature and
multiple oxidation states on Mo26, enabling more efficient CH3OH oxidation to CO2 while minimizing CO
intermediate formation compared to different Pt-based catalysts.
Machine-learning predictions on optimal compositions
The addition of Mo significantly enhances the system’s catalytic activity, though excessive Mo concentration
might have adverse effects. Therefore, it is essential to determine the optimal Mo content for maximizing
catalytic efficiency. To predict the PtPdRhRuMo HEA compositions that could deliver optimal MOR
performance, we employed a machine learning (ML) approach for this processing27. Specifically, we focused
on predicting the adsorption energies of two key MOR intermediates, namely *COOH and *CO (see
Methods), as functions of Mo concentration. To this end, we constructed datasets consisting of 340, 528,
and 208 data points for *CO adsorption at top, bridge, and hollow sites, respectively, along with 608 data
points for *COOH adsorption. These dataset sizes should be sufficient to make reliable predictions of
adsorption energies, as noted earlier27. Figure 3a presents violin plots of the adsorption energy distributions
across different sites. Notably, the median adsorption energy for *COOH is approximately −0.22 eV, which
is around 0.3 eV more positive than that of *CO. The adsorption energies for both *COOH and *CO at the
top sites span a relatively wide range (approximately 1.7–1.8 eV), whereas the *CO adsorption energies at
the bridge and hollow sites are confined to a narrower range (1.0–1.2 eV). To predict adsorption energies,
an ML model accounting for the local atomic environment surrounding the adsorption site was employed.
The adsorption energy was expressed as a function of elemental coordination, where each adsorption site
is described by the number of neighboring atoms of different elements in distinct coordination zones. Further
details on the model construction and zone partitioning are provided in the Methods section. Pearson
correlation analysis between atomic descriptors and adsorption energies revealed that coordination zones
9

closest to the adsorbate (zones 1 and 2 for *COOH, and zone 1 for *CO) exert the strongest influence on
the adsorption energy. Further details on correlation trends are provided in Figure S9.
Figure 3. Machine learning prediction on optimal HEA composition. (a) Violin plot depicting the distribution
of adsorption energy of *COOH and *CO with the median (white tick) values indicated. (b-c) Predicted
adsorption energies plotted against DFT adsorption energies of (b) *COOH (top sites) and (c) *CO (top,
bridge, and hollow sites) from the CatBoost regression. The training set is shown in fern while the test set is
shown in orange. The shaded regions (light blue) represent extended values of ±0.1 and ±0.2 eV. (d) SHAP
beeswarm plot showing the impact of the 15 most important descriptors on the predictions of the CatBoost
model for the adsorption energy of *COOH. Each point represents a SHAP value (impact on adsorption
energy) for a specific descriptor across all data points, whereas color indicates the descriptor value (pink for
high and purple for low). The descriptors are ranked by their average absolute SHAP value, with the most
impactful features at the top. (e) Predicted *COOH adsorption energy of 211,876 possible HEA compositions
projected to Mo concentration. (f) Pseudo-ternary phase diagram on optimal quinary PtPdRhRuMo
compositions (with Pt, Pd, and Rh collected into a single concentration) for CO-depoisoning based on energy
difference ΔE = ΔE*COOH − ΔE*CO. Star symbols represent experimental HEA samples.
Figure 3b-c depicts the performance of the CatBoost model in predicting *COOH and *CO adsorption
energies. It is shown that the model can accurately predict the adsorption energies, with mean absolute error
(MAE) of ~0.03 and ~0.07 eV on the training set and test set, respectively (see also residuals plot showing
CatBoost prediction error, Figure S14). These results demonstrate that, even with simple descriptors, the
model achieved competitive performance compared to those using features from quantum chemistry (QC)
10

calculations or non-QC features (such as electron count, ionic potential, atomic potential, etc., see also
Figure S8)28–31. Interestingly, Ridge regression, despite being a linear method, also performed well,
achieving MAE values below 0.1 eV on the test sets. The Ridge regression coefficients (Figure S15) were
also strongly correlated with the Pearson correlation coefficients (Figure S9). Analysis of Ridge regression
coefficients revealed that Mo atoms coordinating to oxygen in *COOH significantly enhance the adsorption
strength. However, this does not automatically imply that a high concentration of Mo will enhance the *COOH
adsorption strength because (i) the Ridge model lacks non-linear terms, and (ii) the contribution of Mo in
other zones must also be considered. For example, Mo in zone 7, in contrast, decreases the adsorption
strength of *COOH. This observation is also supported by SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) analysis
on the CatBoost model32, presented in Figures 3d and S16. The SHAP values also showed that adsorbate-
coordinating atoms contribute most significantly to adsorption energy predictions: zones 1 and 2 for *COOH
and zone 1 for *CO. Specifically, for *COOH, high N2Mo data points (represented by pink dots) are mostly on
the negative side of the SHAP plot, indicating that a high N2Mo value strengthens the binding. On the other
hand, the N7Mo descriptor exhibits a negative correlation with *COOH adsorption strength, with a majority of
high-value data points being on the positive side of the SHAP plot.
Using the CatBoost model, we then predicted the adsorption energies of *COOH and *CO across 211,876
HEA compositions. Figures 3e and S17 illustrate the impact of Mo concentration on the adsorption energy
of *COOH. The data points are densely distributed, covering a wide range of adsorption energies from −0.44
to −0.92 eV. The observed banded pattern suggests systematic variations in adsorption energy depending
on composition. We observed that *COOH adsorption is generally weak at very low Mo concentrations (a
few percent), strongest at moderate Mo concentrations (10-20%), and slightly weaker at high Mo
concentrations (>50%). This trend indicates that Mo plays a non-monotonic role in tuning *COOH adsorption,
likely due to the dual interaction of *COOH with the surface via both carbon and oxygen. For *CO, the
adsorption energy varies between −1.03 and −0.60 eV (Figure S18). CO adsorption is weakest at high Mo
concentrations but strongest at low Mo concentrations, highlighting the contrasting role of Mo in stabilizing
*COOH versus *CO adsorption. Figure 3f displays a pseudo-ternary phase diagram of the COOH–CO
adsorption energy difference (ΔE = ΔE*COOH − ΔE*CO) as a function of HEA composition, with Pt, Pd, and Rh
collected into a single concentration. Corresponding phase diagrams for *COOH and *CO adsorption
energies are shown in Figures S19 and S20. We use the COOH–CO adsorption energy difference to
evaluate HEA performance based on the idea that a surface capable of stabilizing *COOH relative to *CO
(blue/green areas) can promote water dissociation and mitigate *CO poisoning. Remarkably, the optimal
compositions, where this gap is minimized, span a broad range of Mo concentrations but consistently feature
low Ru content. The composition with the smallest COOH–CO gap is found to be 16% Mo, with Pt, Pd, Rh,
and Ru concentrations of 66%, 2%, 14%, and 2%, respectively. Notably, this composition closely aligns with
the one minimizing *COOH adsorption energy (56% Pt, 2% Pd, 24% Rh, 2% Ru, and 16% Mo; Figure S19).
The optimal composition is rich in Pt, Pd, and Rh, all of which have an fcc crystal structure and relatively low
11

(111) surface energies (2.0–2.7 J/m2)33, which favor the formation of a single-phase solid solution (vide
supra). Meanwhile, the combined Mo (bcc) and Ru (hcp) content remains around 18%, ensuring a balance
between stability and catalytic activity. Finally, we note that while the optimal compositions identified in
Figure 3f are expected to be *CO-tolerant, they may not necessarily yield the highest overall MOR
performance. Future optimization should incorporate other crucial factors, such as C–H activation in
methanol and contributions from *CO-free pathways, which were beyond the scope of this ML-driven study.
Synthesis and electrochemical performance of PtPdRhRuMo
Mo-based HEA catalysts were eventually synthesized and electrochemically tested to validate theoretical
predictions regarding their catalytic performance. To highlight the beneficial effect of Mo incorporation,
mesoporous HEA-PtPdRhRuMo nanoparticles [namely, m-HEANP(Mo)] were designed along with various
nanostructures for comparison, including mesoporous HEA-PtPdRhRuIr [m-HEANP(Ir)], mesoporous HEA-
PtPdRhRuAu [m-HEANP(Au)], mesoporous HEA-PtPdRhRuNi [m-HEANP(Ni)], and mesoporous MEA-
PtPdRhRu (m-MEANP) (see Figure 4 and Figure S21). The co-polymer micelle-assisted soft-templating
approach in combination with wet chemical synthesis methodology is used for porosity institution (see
Methods and SI). In Figure 4a-b, the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and high-angle annular dark-
field (HAADF) scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) images reveal the mesoporous
features in m-HEANP(Mo) nanoparticles. Additionally, the energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) in HAADF-
STEM mode is used to visualize the elemental distribution profile in the m-HEANP(Mo) system, confirming
the uniform distribution of constituent Pt, Pd, Ru, Rh, and Mo elements in the structure (Figure 4c-d, Table
S4). Along with the elemental atomic content obtained from SEM-EDS analysis (Figure S22), the atomic
ratio of Pt/Pd/Rh/Ru/Mo in m-HEANP(Mo) was determined to be 59/17/20/2/2 by inductively coupled plasma
optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES, Table S5), suggesting that this multi-elemental nanostructure is
stabilized with a mixing entropy configuration of ΔSmix ~1.1R12,34. The multi-elemental character of the m-
HEANP(Mo) exterior is also evident from the intense characteristic peaks of Pt, Pd, Ru, Rh, and Mo in the
wide-scan X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectrum (Figure S23a), highlighting its high entropic
feature.
To further confirm the high-entropy effect in m-HEANP(Mo), the valence band (VB) spectrum was examined
using hard X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (HAXPES, Cr Kα source) (Figure 4f). Accordingly, the
featureless VB spectrum of m-HEANP(Mo), in contrast to the monometallic Pt system, reflects entropy-
driven modifications in the overall electronic structure35. Moreover, the powder X-ray diffraction (XRD)
pattern exhibits characteristic peaks identical to those of the Pt-system (JCPDS card No. 03-065-2868),
confirming that the m-HEANP(Mo) nanoparticles crystallize in a single-phase fcc structure (Figure 4e). The
lattice constant determined from the XRD pattern was 0.392 nm, which is comparatively larger than that of
its constituent elements: Rh (0.380 nm), Mo (0.314 nm), Ru (0.271 nm), Pd (0.385 nm), and Pt (0.391 nm).
12

This lattice distortion can be attributed to entropy-driven phase purity, resulting from multiple atomic species
with different sizes residing in one unit cell36.
Figure 4. Synthesis of mesoporous quinary PtPdRhRuMo catalysts. (a) SEM and (b) HAADF-STEM images
of mesoporous HEA-PtPdRhRuMo nanoparticles (m-HEANP). (c) HAADF-STEM image of a nanoparticle
subjected to EDS mapping and (d) associated elemental distribution profiles of Pt, Pd, Ru, Rh, and Mo,
respectively. (e) Powder XRD pattern of m-HEANP and (f) the valence band spectra of m-HEANP and Pt.
(g) TEM and (h) HRTEM images of mesoporous HEA-PtPdRhRuMo film (m-HEAF), with inset SAED pattern.
(i) HAADF-STEM image and (j) the corresponding EDS mapping of all elements in m-HEAF. (k) XRD
patterns of m-HEAF and m-MEAF referred to Pt-system (JCPDS: 04-0802).
It should be noted that the critical threshold defining high-entropy alloys has recently evolved34,37 (details of
its definition(s) are presented in SI), shifting the research focus from creating ideal alloys that strictly adhere
to the entropy criterion to regulating entropy as a tool for tailoring compositions and achieving desired
material properties34. Nevertheless, HEA samples with higher mixing entropy configurations have also been
considered. Mesoporous quinary HEA-PtPdRhRuMo film [m-HEAF(Mo)] and mesoporous MEA-PtPdRhRu
film (m-MEAF) were then synthesized through soft-templated electrochemical deposition. The fabrication
process employed a polished Au-Ti-Si working electrode immersed in a micellar electrolyte containing
copolymers and multimetallic precursors. The cross-sectional TEM analysis of focused ion beam (FIB)-
prepared specimens revealed mesoporous structural integrity throughout the m-HEAF(Mo) (Figure 4g).
13

High-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) showed lattice fringes with an interplanar
spacing of 0.226 nm, corresponding to the (111) plane of the fcc structure (Figure 4h). In addition, the
HAADF-STEM imaging confirmed the three-dimensional continuity of the mesochannels (Figure 4i).
Furthermore, elemental homogeneity was verified through STEM-EDS mapping, with line-scan profiles
demonstrating spatial uniformity of all constituent metals (Pt, Pd, Rh, Ru, Mo) across the mesoporous film
(Figure 4j). The atomic ratio of Pt/Pd/Rh/Ru/Mo was also determined to be 30/37/17/7.7/8.3 by ICP-OES,
corresponding to ΔSmix value of 1.4R. The XRD analysis of both the m-MEAF and m-HEAF(Mo) samples
exhibited distinct characteristic peaks corresponding to the fcc structure of Pt, consistent with mesoporous
alloy nanoparticles (Figure 4k). Compared to m-MEAF, the diffraction peaks of the m-HEAF(Mo) shift toward
higher angles, indicating lattice shrinkage due to the incorporation of smaller Mo atoms, further illustrating
its alloy nature. These samples have reasonable atomic components within the optimal range for the MOR
reaction, as suggested by the theoretical calculations. On the other hand, high-resolution XPS (HRXPS,
Figure S23b) analysis on the Pt 4f core levels of both the m-HEAF(Mo) and m-HEANP(Mo) samples
indicates a noticeable negative shift in the Pt 4f binding energy of both m-HEAF(Mo) and m-HEANP(Mo)
compared to Pt-C. These results indicate a more electron-rich Pt environment owing to inter-element charge
transfer from more electropositive elements, such as Mo. The shift is more pronounced in m-HEAF(Mo)
sample compared to that in m-HEANP(Mo), which correlates well with its higher Mo content. This changed
electron density could modulate the d-band structure of Pt, weakening the adsorption of poisoning
intermediates and thereby contributing to its enhanced MOR performance.
To evaluate the electrochemical performance of the proposed PtPdRhRuMo alloy systems, catalyst samples
were subjected to the methanol electro-oxidation reaction (MOR) in an alkaline medium (Figure 5). Their
MOR activity was evaluated using a typical three-electrode system and an electrolyte solution of 1.0 M KOH
+ 1.0 M methanol. Before the MOR test, all the prepared working electrodes were electrochemically cleaned
in nitrogen-saturated 1.0 M KOH solution. For comparison, the m-HEANP(Ir), m-HEANP(Au), m-HEANP(Ni),
and m-MEANP were also prepared in the same condition, alongside commercially available Pt-C (20 wt. %
Pt loading) (see SI). Characteristic hydrogen adsorption-desorption behavior (Figure S24) observed within
the potential window of 0.06–0.40 V vs RHE indicates high Pt atom utilization across all HEA systems. The
electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) of the electrocatalysts in this study was determined via hydrogen
under potential deposition (Table S6). In Figures 5a and S25, clear anodic peaks during forward and
backward scans indicate the electrooxidation of methanol and its intermediates in MOR studies for all
electrocatalysts38. Notably, m-HEANP(Mo) demonstrates significantly higher MOR activity (12.02 mA/cm2),
outperforming m-HEANP(Ir) (7.92 mA/cm2), m-HEANP(Au) (0.33 mA/cm2), m-HEANP(Ni) (0.39 mA/cm2),
m-MEANP (6.11 mA/cm2), and commercial Pt-C (2.04 mA/cm2). This result highlights the effective role of
Mo as the fifth element in the PtPdRhRu system, enhancing the MOR process in alignment with our previous
theoretical predictions. This enhancement is further supported by the lowest onset potential observed for the
Mo-based HEA system (Eonset ~ 0.446 V) compared to the other catalysts (Figure 5b), indicating more facile
14

methanol adsorption and a lower MOR activation barrier on m-HEANP(Mo)39. In addition, the mass activity
(MA) of m-HEANP(Mo) was estimated at 7.70 A mgPt -1 and 3.55 A mgall-metals -1, which is considerably higher
than that of m-HEANP(Ir) (2.67 A mgPt -1 and 1.33 A mgall-metals -1), m-HEANP(Au) (0.55 A mgPt -1 and 0.17 A
mgall-metals -1), m-HEANP(Ni) (0.53 A mgPt -1 and 0.18 A mgall-metals -1), m-MEANP (1.92 A mgPt -1 and 0.97 A
mgall-metals -1), and commercial Pt-C (0.68 A mgPt -1 and 0.68 A mgall-metals -1) (see Figure 5c,g). To shed light
on MOR durability, the chronoamperometry (CA) test was investigated at 0.640 V vs RHE for these catalysts
throughout 10,000 s. As shown in Figure 5d, m-HEANP(Mo) exhibits high MOR activity and long-term
durability, retaining 2.57 A mgPt -1 after 10,000 s (approximately 48% of its initial activity, MA@t0 = 5.35 A mgPt -
1 at t = 0). This performance remarkably surpasses that of m-HEANP(Ir), which retains only ~11% of its initial
activity (MA@t0 = 2.42 A mgPt -1 and MA@t10000 = 0.27 A mgPt -1); m-HEANP(Au) with ~40% (MA@t0 = 0.76 A
mgPt -1 and MA@t10000 = 0.30 A mgPt -1); m-MEANP with ~27% (MA@t0 = 0.17 A mgPt -1 and MA@t10000 = 0.05 A
mgPt -1); and Pt-C with ~16% (MA@t0 = 0.14 A mgPt -1 and MA@t10000 = 0.02 A mgPt -1). Notably, m-HEANP(Ni)
exhibits good stability with comparable retention of ~51% (MA@t0 = 0.99 A mgPt -1 and MA@t10000 = 0.50 A
mgPt -1). Moreover, the extended CA test was also carried out on m-HEANP(Mo) to test its long-term
durability. The MOR activity of our catalyst was restored by replacing a fresh electrolyte solution after every
10,000 s for 10 consecutive cycles of the CA test (Figure 5e), suggesting appreciable reproducibility of the
catalytic activity. These results suggest that the Mo-based HEA system is indeed a suitable electrocatalyst
for effective MOR performance.
A similar trend was observed in the film samples, where the incorporation of Mo as the fifth element in the
m-MEAF resulted in a noticeable improvement in both onset potential (Figure S26) and MOR activity (Figure
5f). This again suggests the facile adsorption of methanol molecules and their effective oxidation on m-
HEAF(Mo)39. In particular, the m-HEAF(Mo) exhibits the highest MOR-specific activity of 18.20 mA/cm2,
which is ~1.5 times higher than the m-MEAF (12.28 mA/cm2) and 8.3 times greater than commercial Pt-C
(2.2 mA/cm2). Besides, m-HEA film has a larger forward (If) to backward (Ib) MOR current ratio (If/Ib ~ 3.87)
than m-MEAF (~3.46), suggesting better handling of reaction intermediates38,39 on HEA film, consistent with
the computational predictions. Among the considered catalysts, m-HEAF(Mo) delivers the highest MOR
activity for both Pt-mass loading and all-metals-mass loading, which is 9.89 A mgPt -1 and 4.49 A mgall-metals -1,
respectively (Figures 5g, S27, and Table S7-S8). Moreover, the significant enhancement in MOR activity
(for both specific current and mass activity) of Mo-based HEA catalysts surpasses many recently reported
Pt-based catalytic systems and HEA systems (Figure 5h and Table S8). Further analysis on electrochemical
impedance spectroscopy (EIS) (Figure S28) and Randles–Ševčík (R–S) relationship (Figure S29) also
reveals that the superior MOR performance of PtPdRhRuMo originates from a synergistic combination of
enhanced intrinsic activity (compositional complexity transitioned from medium to high entropy) and porosity
integration (optimized mass transport).
15

Figure 5. MOR performance of quinary HEA-PtPdRhRuMo. (a) ECSA-normalized CV profiles of m-
HEANP(Mo), m-HEANP(Ir), m-HEANP(Ni), m-HEANP(Au), m-MEANP, Pt-C, and (b) their corresponding
onset potential from forward scan in the potential window of 0.40 to 0.75 V in an electrolytic solution of 1.0
M KOH : 1.0 M CH3OH using potential scan rate of 50 mV s-1. (c) MOR mass activities concerning Pt loading
of m-HEANP(Mo), m-HEANP(Ir), m-HEANP(Au), m-HEANP(Ni), m-MEANP, and commercial Pt-C. (d)
Chronoamperometric (CA) tests at 0.640 V vs RHE on Pt-C, m-MEANP, m-HEANP(Ir), m-HEANP(Au), m-
HEANP(Ni), and m-HEANP(Mo). The inset shows the magnified CA profile of Pt-C for the first 4000 s. (e)
Long-term CA durability test of mesoporous HEA-PtPdRhRuMo, where the arrows indicate when the
electrolyte is changed. (f) ECSA-normalized CV profiles of m-HEAF(Mo), m-MEAF, and Pt-C. (g) Mass
activities concerning Pt-loading and all-metals loading of Pt-C, m-MEANP, m-HEANP(Ir), m-HEANP(Mo), m-
MEAF, and m-HEAF(Mo). (h) The comparative specific MOR activity and mass activity (Pt-loading) of m-
HEAF(Mo), m-MEAF, m-HEANP(Mo), m-HEANP(Ir), m-HEANP(Ni), m-HEANP(Au), and m-MEANP with the
recently reported HEAs and Pt group metals-based electrocatalysts (tabulated in the MOR comparative
Table S8).
Eventually, to further elaborate on the enhanced CO-poisoning resistance and shed some light on reaction
intermediates during MOR electrocatalysis, we employed in-situ Attenuated Total Reflectance Surface-
Enhanced Infrared Absorption Spectroscopy (ATR-SEIRAS) and CO stripping voltammetry on m-
HEANP(Mo) and commercial Pt-C catalysts for comparison (Figures 6 and S30). Several characteristic
infrared bands associated with MOR intermediates were observed in the 2500-1000 cm-1 range across the
16

investigated potential window. Specifically, a downward band at ~2340 cm-1 corresponds to CO2 (asymmetric
O–C–O stretching vibration, 𝜈as)40,41, indicating the final product of complete methanol oxidation. Bipolar
bands near ~2040 cm-1 are attributed to linearly adsorbed CO species42–46, while a peak at ~1700 cm-1 is
assigned to the carboxylic species (–COOH)47–49. Distinct downward peaks at ~1570, ~1350, ~1200, and
~1100 cm-1 are ascribed to formate ions HCOO− (𝜈as(O–C–O) and δ(C–H) vibrations) and its overlapping
signals with carbonate ions (CO3 2−) and methoxyl species (–OCH3), respectively50–54. Additionally, bands at
~1030 cm-1 are attributed to CH3OH adsorption via 𝜈(C–O) stretching55, and bands at ~1450 cm-1 originate
from CO3 2−/HCO3− species formed by the reaction between OH⁻ and desorbed CO2 50.
As shown in Figure 6a-b, CO2 peaks appear at a much lower potential (0.40 V) on PtPdRhRuMo compared
to Pt-C (0.55 V), indicating more facile complete oxidation of methanol. Notably, while CO adsorption peaks
(~2040 cm-1) are present across the entire applied potential range with significant intensity on Pt-C, their
appearance on PtPdRhRuMo is limited to a narrow low-potential window (0.25–0.45 V) with only small
intensity, and they quickly disappear at higher potentials. This behavior highlights the remarkable CO-
poisoning tolerance and faster oxidation kinetics on the PtPdRhRuMo surface. Indeed, CO-stripping
voltammetry results in Figure 6c-d further confirm the superior CO-tolerance of PtPdRhRuMo. Compared
to the commercial Pt-C catalyst, which exhibits a CO oxidation peak (Ep) of 0.759 V and an onset oxidation
potential (Eonset) of 0.603 V, PtPdRhRuMo shows negatively shifted values of Ep = 0.686 V and Eonset = 0.590
V. These shifts indicate weaker CO binding strength and improved CO tolerance46, which are advantageous
for methanol oxidation, consistent with our theoretical predictions.
Furthermore, the adsorption bands of methoxyl and carboxylic species on PtPdRhRuMo are significantly
enhanced than those on Pt-C, suggesting more effective activation of methanol and key intermediates.
Strong downward peaks associated with carboxylic species and especially formate ions, products of the CO-
free pathways, are also more prominent on PtPdRhRuMo, revealing that alternative reaction routes beyond
the CO-pathway are favored and enhanced. Combining evidence from in-situ ATR-SEIRAS, CO-stripping
curves, and electrochemical tests, we demonstrated that PtPdRhRuMo is a highly promising HEA catalyst
with superior catalytic performance and high CO-poisoning resistance. These findings confirm the
effectiveness of theoretical calculations in guiding the rational design of catalysts for MOR applications.
17

Figure 6. In-situ ATR-SEIRAS spectra and CO-stripping curves analysis of different catalysts. (a) In-situ
ATR-SEIRAS spectra by internal reflection mode of commercial Pt-C and (b) m-HEANP(Mo) catalysts. All
spectra were recorded from 0.15 to 1.00 V vs. RHE in 1.0 M KOH : 1.0 M CH3OH solution. (c-d) CO-stripping
voltammograms of (c) commercial Pt-C and (d) m-HEANP(Mo) catalysts.
Conclusions
In summary, we reported an effective bottom-up approach in developing high-performance high-entropy
alloy electrocatalysts for methanol oxidation reactions. Accordingly, quinary PtPdRhRuMo catalysts indeed
demonstrate the desired physicochemical properties to promote efficient methanol oxidation, including
strong affinity to CH3OH, low electrical resistivity, high resistance to CO poisoning, and great water-
dissociation ability. Besides its superior performance, the use of precious metals or the difficulty in precisely
controlling the atomic composition is considered an existing limitation. Nevertheless, within the scope of this
work, the comprehensive integration of first-principles calculations, machine learning, and experimental
validation has proven to be an effective strategy for accelerating the design of this class of materials with
impressive performance. This suggests strong potential for advancing high-performance catalytic materials
not only for methanol oxidation but also for a range of electrochemical reactions (such as oxygen reduction
reaction, hydrogen oxidation reactions, etc). Moreover, it potentially paves the way for future research with
more abundant and cost-effective metals while maintaining high catalytic activity for applications in energy
conversion and beyond.
Methods
First-principles calculations
DFT calculations were performed using the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package56 (VASP) with a plane-wave basis set
18

and an energy cutoff of 450 eV. The projector-augmented wave (PAW) method57 was used to describe core electrons,
while the revised Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (RPBE) functional58 accounted for exchange-correlation parts. The irreducible
Brillouin zone was sampled using a Γ-centered 2´2´1 k-point mesh along with a Gaussian smearing width of 0.2 eV and
an energy convergence threshold of 10-4 eV. Grimme’s D3 van der Waals (vdW) correction59 was applied to account for
weak dispersion forces between adsorbates and the surface. All models were built on a 5´5 unit cell of the (111) facet,
consisting of 100 atoms arranged in a four-layer slab. The bottom two layers were fixed to mimic the bulk structure, while
the upper layers were fully relaxed until residual forces were below 3´10−2 eVÅ−1. Here, all elements in MEA and HEA
systems are present in equiatomic compositions. A vacuum region of 15 Å was added along the z-direction for all
substrates. To simulate elemental disorder in multimetallic alloys, 1000 random configurations were generated for each
alloy, and the five most stable ones in energy were selected to evaluate catalytic activity in average. To analyze the phase
formation energy, average electronic structures, and residual resistivity of bulk alloys, a Korringa–Kohn–Rostoker Green's
function method combined with the coherent potential approximation60,61 (KKR-CPA) was implemented in the AkaiKKR
code62,63, using the maximum angular momentum of l = 3 and an imaginary part of η = 10-5 Ry.
max
The Gibbs free energy of each species was then defined as G = E + ZPE ‒ TS, where E is the total energy, ZPE is the
zero-point energy correction, and S is the vibrational entropy of the adsorbed intermediate64,65. The catalytic activity was
estimated using the relative free energy (ΔG) of possible reactions (see SI) at p = 1 atm, pH = 0, and T = 298.15 K, where
ΔG = ΔE + ΔZPE ‒ TΔS. For proton-electron transfer steps, the computational hydrogen electrode model was used66,
where G(H⁺ + e⁻) equals G(1/2H(g)), corresponding to RHE. Solvent effects were also estimated using the implicit
2
solvation model from VASPsol67, while the climbing image nudged elastic band (CINEB) method was applied to determine
transition-state energy barriers. For AIMD simulations, an initial layer of water with a density of around 1 g/cm3 (43 HO
2
molecules) was added on the catalyst surfaces and heated to 300 K over 1.25 ps (timestep = 0.25 fs) using the standard
NVT ensemble. The systems were then stabilized at 300 K for 2 ps before diffusion was investigated for over 9 ps.
Machine learning
Given a large number of active sites in alloy systems, a machine learning model trained on large-scale graph neural
networks from the Open Catalyst Project68,69 was integrated with DFT calculations to accelerate optimization and identify
optimal reaction pathways70.The adsorption energies of *COOH and *CO were then calculated relative to CHOH, using
3
the following equations:
ΔE = [E + 5/2 E ] – [E + E + E ]
(*COOH) (*COOH) (H2) (*) (CH3OH) (H2O)
ΔE = [E + 2E ] – [E + E ].
(*CO) (*CO) (H2) (*) (CH3OH)
Four datasets of COOH and CO adsorption on the PtPdRhRuMo HEA were first constructed. We calculated *COOH and
*CO adsorption on 30 of the most stable (5×5) HEA surfaces, each with equal atomic percentages of Pt, Pd, Ru, Rh, and
Mo (Table S3). The Xsorb code71 was used to systematically generate different configurations. For *COOH, we focused
on top-site adsorption, where both the carbon and oxygen atoms are positioned at adjacent top sites, whereas for *CO,
we considered all absorption sites, including top, bridge, fcc hollow, and hcp hollow sites. Each surface contains 75
adsorption configurations in total. Since the adsorbate molecules were fully optimized without any constraints, many
different initial configurations converged to the same local minimum. Thus, to ensure dataset uniqueness, only distinct
19

optimized structures were retained in the database. Additionally, to better capture the adsorption of *COOH and *CO on
surfaces with a high concentration of one single metal, we extended the dataset with the adsorption of *COOH and *CO
on pure-metal fcc surfaces. Machine learning models were constructed to predict the adsorption energies based on the
local atomic environment surrounding the adsorption site. For *COOH adsorption, the surface was divided into nine zones,
shown in Figure S7. The adsorption energy is calculated as ΔE = f(N , N , N , N , N , …, N , N , N ,
(*COOH) 1Pt 1Pd 1Ru 1Rh 1Mo 9Pt 9Pd 9Ru
N
9Rh
, N
9Mo
), where NkX represents the number of atoms of element X in zone k (k = 1–9). For *CO adsorption at top sites,
we employed a three-zone model, following a similar strategy used for *O adsorption27. For *CO adsorption at bridge and
hollow sites, we used a five-zone partitioning to better capture the local coordination effects. Additional descriptors related
to atomic physicochemical properties, such as electronegativity, atomic radius, and the number of d-electrons were also
considered (Figure S8). However, the results indicated that simple descriptors relied on the local atomic environment are
sufficient to achieve comparable predictive accuracy. We note that, due to the large supercell employed in this study, we
were able to use an extended zone approach without encountering periodic boundary conditions artifacts.
Each dataset was split into training and test sets with a ratio of 80:20. To train the model, we explored several regression
techniques, including Ridge regression, Support Vector Regression (SVR), Random Forest Regression, three gradient-
boosting algorithms (Gradient Boosting Regression, XGBoost Regression, and CatBoost Regression), and Multi-Layer
Perceptron (MLP) Regression. Hyperparameters were optimized using GridSearchCV with a 5-fold cross-validation. We
found that most models yielded comparable performance, except for Random Forest Regression, which exhibited strong
overfitting (Figures S9-S13). Ultimately, we selected CatBoost regression32 for further study due to its strong predictive
accuracy, fast prediction speed, and built-in overfitting prevention (Figure 3b-c and Figures S9-S13). The CatBoost model
was used to predict the adsorption of *COOH and *CO on surfaces with different compositions. For each composition, we
generated 1000 random 5×5 surfaces. On each surface, the adsorption energies of *COOH and *CO for all possible
configurations (50 for *COOH and 150 for *CO) were predicted. We then collected the most stable configuration, i.e., the
one with the most negative adsorption energy. The adsorption energy on a configuration is then averaged over 1000
surfaces. In total, 1000×(50+150) = 200,000 adsorption energy evaluations were performed per composition. Given the
fast prediction of CatBoost, we directly evaluated a large number of possible compositions by changing the composition
of each metal from 2% to 92% in 2% increments (resulting in 211,876 possible HEA compositions), instead of relying on
optimization techniques such as Genetic Algorithms or Bayesian optimization72.
Synthesis of mesoporous HEA samples
Mesoporous PtPdRhRuMo high-entropy alloy nanoparticles [m-HEANP(Mo)] were synthesized via micelle assembly using
polystyrene-b-poly(ethylene oxide) (PS -b-PEO ) and a wet-chemical method. First, 10 mg of the diblock copolymer
5000 2500
was dissolved in 1.5 mL of N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) to form a clear solution, which was then divided into five equal
portions. Each portion received 0.8 mL of a Pt (40 mM)/Pd (40 mM)/Ru (80 mM)/Mo (120 mM)/ Rh (60 mM) metal salt
solution, inducing micellization with hydrophilic PEO shells and hydrophobic PS cores that retained metal ions. The
portions were combined and stirred for 2 hours, followed by the addition of 0.3 mL of 6 M hydrochloric acid to adjust the
pH. After 30 minutes of further stirring, the mixture was transferred to a preheated oil bath at 95°C. There, 3 mL of formic
20

acid was introduced as a reducing agent, and the reaction proceeded for 2 hours. Mesoporous HEANP of Ir [m-HEANP(Ir)],
Au [m-HEANP(Au)], and Ni [m-HEANP(Ni)] were synthesized by replacing the Mo precursor (MoCl) with aqueous
5
solutions of IrCl·xHO (40 mM, 0.8 mL), HAuCl·3HO (20 mM, 0.8 mL), and NiCl·6HO (100 mM, 0.8 mL), respectively.
3 2 4 2 2 2
All other synthetic parameters, including precursor concentrations, solvent composition, and reaction temperature, were
kept constant at the same values used for m-HEANP(Mo). The final product [m-HEANP(Mo)/m-HEANP(Ir)/m-MEANP]
was collected by centrifugation (12,000 rpm, 25 min) and washed with acetone, ethanol, and water to remove residual
copolymers. Nonporous HEA and MEA nanoparticles [i.e., HEANP(Mo) and MEANP, respectively] were prepared under
the same conditions as m-HEANP(Mo) and m-MEANP but in the absence of the block copolymer template, resulting in
the formation of non-mesoporous structures.
Similarly, mesoporous HEA film [m-HEAF(Mo)] was synthesized by dissolving 4 mg of the diblock copolymer in 0.6 mL of
THF. Subsequently, 0.5 mL of ethanol, 2.32 mL of deionized water, and 0.08 mL of 2 M HCl were added to form a micellar
solution at 40°C. A sequential addition of 0.1 mL each of KPtCl (40 mM), NaPdCl (40 mM), NaRhCl (40 mM),
2 4 2 4 3 6
RuCl·xHO (40 mM), and MoCl (40 mM) was performed to introduce metal precursors into the electrolyte.
3 2 5
Electrodeposition was conducted using a conventional three-electrode setup, comprising a Pt wire counter electrode, an
Ag/AgCl reference electrode (in 3 M KCl), and an Au-coated Si wafer (3 mm × 15 mm) as the working electrode. The m-
HEAF(Mo) was deposited electrochemically at a constant potential of –0.2 V (vs. Ag/AgCl) for 300 s. Following deposition,
the working electrode was immersed in THF at room temperature for 24 h to remove the micellar template. For comparison,
the m-MEAF was synthesized under identical conditions, excluding MoCl.
5
Electrocatalytic measurements
Mesoporous high/medium entropy alloy [m-MEANP/m-HEANP(Mo)/m-HEANP(Ir)] nanospheres were ground into a fine
powder using a mortar and pestle. In a controlled process, 10 mg of HEAs were dispersed in 5 mL of hexane and sonicated
for uniform dispersion. Then, 40 mg of carbon black (Vulcan XC-72) and 30 mL of hexane were added, forming a dark
suspension. This mixture underwent 1 hour of sonication at room temperature for improved homogeneity. The resulting
powder was collected via high-speed centrifugation (12,000 rpm), washed thrice with ethanol, and dried overnight at 60 °C
in a vacuum oven (DP-200, Yamato Scientific Co., Ltd.).
For slurry preparation, 5 mg of the carbon-supported m-MEANP/m-HEANP(Mo)/m-HEANP(Ir) catalysts was dispersed in
950 µL of a 1:2 mixture of deionized water (DI) and isopropanol. A 50 µL addition of 5 wt.% Nafion® solution acted as a
binding agent. After 45 minutes of ultrasonication, a homogeneous catalyst ink (5 mg/mL) was obtained and drop-cast (5
µL) onto a glassy carbon rotating disk electrode (RDE, 3 mm diameter). Methanol oxidation reaction (MOR) was conducted
in an aqueous 1 M KOH and 1 M methanol solution using a traditional three-electrode setup with graphite rod as a counter
electrode, catalysts modified RDE as working, and Hg/HgO (1.0 M NaOH) as the reference electrode. In the case of film
samples (m-MEAF/m-HEAF), they were directly used as the working electrodes. The potential measured against Hg/HgO
(1 M NaOH) reference electrode was converted to RHE scale using following equation: E = E + (0.0591 * pH)
(RHE) (Hg/HgO)
+ E° ; where E° is the standard potential of the Hg/HgO (1.0 M NaOH) electrode (+0.108 V). Before
(Hg/HgO) (Hg/HgO)
electrochemical measurements, all working electrodes were cleaned electrochemically by cycling them in the potential
window of 0.08 to −0.981 V (vs. Hg/HgO) at the scan rate of 100 mV/s in N -saturated 1.0 M KOH electrolyte solution.
2
21

The electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) was determined using cyclic voltammogram (CV) profiles recorded in
N-saturated 1.0 M KOH electrolyte solution in the potential window of 0.03 to −0.871 V (vs. Hg/HgO) at a scan rate of
2
100 mV/s. To determine the ECSA, the following equation was used: ECSA = Q / q, where Q is the charge involved for
H h H
H-adsorption on various electrocatalysts and q is the charge involved in monolayer adsorption of hydrogen on a Pt surface
h
(210 µC/cm2). The mass activities were determined by normalizing the peak current deduced from MOR CV curves
concerning the Pt loading as well as the total metal loading on the working electrodes. The MOR CV curves were recorded
in N-saturated 1.0 M KOH + 1.0 M CHOH electrolyte solution in the potential window of −0.6 to 0.4 V (vs Hg/HgO). The
2 3
chronoamperometric stability tests were carried out at a constant potential of −0.3 V (vs. Hg/HgO). All electrode potentials
were reported in the RHE scale in the manuscript and supporting files.
ASSOCIATED CONTENT
Supporting information (SI): Computational methods, experimental section (materials and
characterization), additional figures (Figures S1−S30), and tables (Table S1-S8) (PDF).
The Supporting Information is available free of charge.
AUTHOR INFORMATION
Corresponding Authors
Ravi Nandan − Research Center for Materials Nanoarchitectonics, National Institute for Materials Science
(NIMS), 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan.
Email: nandan.ravi@nims.go.jp, orcid.org/0000-0001-9244-3594.
Quan Manh Phung − Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, Nagoya University, Furo-cho,
Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8602, Japan; Institute of Transformative Bio-Molecules (WPI-ITbM), Nagoya
University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8601.
Email: quan.phung@chem.nagoya-u.ac.jp, orcid.org/0000-0001-8205-5328.
Yusuke Yamauchi − Department of Materials Process Engineering, Graduate School of Engineering,
Nagoya University, Nagoya 464-8603, Japan.
School of Chemical Engineering and Australian Institute for Bioengineering and Nanotechnology (AIBN),
The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.
Email: y.yamauchi@uq.edu.au, orcid.org/0000-0001-7854-927X.
Authors
Ho Ngoc Nam − Department of Materials Process Engineering, Graduate School of Engineering, Nagoya
University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8603, Japan.
Email: honam@nagoya-u.jp, orcid.org/0000-0001-9785-5061.
Lei Fu − Department of Materials Process Engineering, Graduate School of Engineering, Nagoya University,
Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8603, Japan.
Email: fu_lei@stu.xjtu.edu.cn
Yingji Zhao − Department of Materials Process Engineering, Graduate School of Engineering, Nagoya
22

University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8603, Japan.
Email: zhao.yingji.n2@f.mail.nagoya-u.ac.jp
Yunqing Kang − Department of Materials Process Engineering, Graduate School of Engineering, Nagoya
University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8603, Japan.
Email: yqkang@toki.waseda.jp
Tetsuya Fukushima – National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), 1-1-1
Umezono, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8560, Japan.
Email: t.fukushima@aist.go.jp, https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6301-6104
Kazunori Sato – Division of Materials and Manufacturing Science, Graduate School of Engineering, Osaka
University, 2-1 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.
Email: ksato@mat.eng.osaka-u.ac.jp
Yusuke Asakura – Department of Materials Process Engineering, Graduate School of Engineering, Nagoya
University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8603, Japan.
Email: asakura.yusuke@material.nagoya-u.ac.jp
Ovidiu Cretu – Center for Basic Research on Materials, National Institute for Materials Science (NIMS), 1-
1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan.
Email: CRETU.Ovidiu@nims.go.jp
Jun Kikkawa – Center for Basic Research on Materials, National Institute for Materials Science (NIMS), 1-
1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan.
Email: kikkawa.jun@nims.go.jp
Joel Henzie – Research Center for Materials Nanoarchitectonics, National Institute for Materials Science
(NIMS), 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan.
Email: HENZIE.Joeladam@nims.go.jp, orcid.org/0000-0002-9190-2645
Jonathan Hill – Research Center for Materials Nanoarchitectonics, National Institute for Materials Science
(NIMS), 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan.
Email: Jonathan.Hill@nims.go.jp, orcid.org/0000-0002-4229-5842
Takeshi Yanai – Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, Nagoya University, Furo-cho,
Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8602, Japan; Institute of Transformative Bio-Molecules (WPI-ITbM), Nagoya
University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8601.
Email: yanait@gmail.com, orcid.org/0000-0003-3933-8546
Notes
There are no conflicts to declare.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors acknowledge financial support from the ARC Laureate Fellowship (FL230100095), the ES
Program (via Nagoya University until May 2024), and the JST-ERATO Yamauchi Materials Space-Tectonics
23

Project (JPMJER2003). This work is supported by Hibi Science and Technology Foundation Research Grant
(FY2025). H.N.N. acknowledges Young Researcher Funding of The Thermal & Electrical Energy
Technology (TEET) Foundation (FY2025). R.N. and Y.Y. acknowledge financial support from the Japan
Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS, No. P220632). H.N.N thanks the supercomputer systems at
the Institute for Solid State Physics, The University of Tokyo. Q.M.P and T.Y. acknowledge financial support
from JSPS KAKENHI (Grant Numbers 24K17694 and 24H00449, respectively) and Research Center for
Computational Science, Okazaki, for computational resources (Projects: 24-IMS-C082 and 23-IMS-C087).
REFERENCES
(1) Kettler, P. B. Platinum Group Metals in Catalysis: Fabrication of Catalysts and
Catalyst Precursors. Org Process Res Dev 2003, 7 (3), 342–354.
https://doi.org/10.1021/op034017o.
(2) Wang, J.; Zhang, B.; Guo, W.; Wang, L.; Chen, J.; Pan, H.; Sun, W. Toward
Electrocatalytic Methanol Oxidation Reaction: Longstanding Debates and Emerging
Catalysts. Adv Mater 2023, 35 (26), 2211099.
https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202211099.
(3) Poerwoprajitno, A. R.; Gloag, L.; Watt, J.; Cheong, S.; Tan, X.; Lei, H.; Tahini, H. A.;
Henson, A.; Subhash, B.; Bedford, N. M.; Miller, B. K.; O’Mara, P. B.; Benedetti, T. M.;
Huber, D. L.; Zhang, W.; Smith, S. C.; Gooding, J. J.; Schuhmann, W.; Tilley, R. D. A
Single-Pt-Atom-on-Ru-Nanoparticle Electrocatalyst for CO-Resilient Methanol
Oxidation. Nat Catal 2022, 5 (3), 231–237. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-
00756-9.
(4) He, L.; Li, M.; Qiu, L.; Geng, S.; Liu, Y.; Tian, F.; Luo, M.; Liu, H.; Yu, Y.; Yang, W.; Guo,
S. Single-Atom Mo-Tailored High-Entropy-Alloy Ultrathin Nanosheets with Intrinsic
Tensile Strain Enhance Electrocatalysis. Nat Commun 2024, 15 (1), 2290.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-45874-z.
(5) Sun, C.; Liu, Y.; Liang, Z.; Li, Q.; Du, Y.; Liu, J.-C.; Cheng, Y.; Luo, F. Activating PtRu
with Rare Earth Alloying for Efficient Electrocatalytic Methanol Oxidation Reaction.
Catal Sci Technol 2025, 15, 2473-2481. https://doi.org/10.1039/D4CY01514B.
(6) Antolini, E.; Salgado, J. R. C.; Gonzalez, E. R. The Methanol Oxidation Reaction on
Platinum Alloys with the First Row Transition Metals. Appl Catal B 2006, 63 (1–2),
137–149. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2005.09.014.
(7) Li, M.; Lin, F.; Zhang, S.; Zhao, R.; Tao, L.; Li, L.; Li, J.; Zeng, L.; Luo, M.; Guo, S.
High-Entropy Alloy Electrocatalysts Go to (Sub-)Nanoscale. Sci Adv 2024, 10 (23),
eadn2877. https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.adn2877.
(8) Ren, J.-T.; Chen, L.; Wang, H.-Y.; Yuan, Z.-Y. High-Entropy Alloys in Electrocatalysis:
24

From Fundamentals to Applications. Chem Soc Rev 2023, 52 (23), 8319–8373.
https://doi.org/10.1039/D3CS00557G.
(9) Xiao, L.; Wang, Z.; Guan, J. Optimization Strategies of High-Entropy Alloys for
Electrocatalytic Applications. Chem Sci 2023, 14 (45), 12850–12868.
https://doi.org/10.1039/D3SC04962K.
(10) Kang, Y.; Cretu, O.; Kikkawa, J.; Kimoto, K.; Nara, H.; Nugraha, A. S.; Kawamoto, H.;
Eguchi, M.; Liao, T.; Sun, Z.; Asahi, T.; Yamauchi, Y. Mesoporous Multimetallic
Nanospheres with Exposed Highly Entropic Alloy Sites. Nat Commun 2023, 14 (1),
4182. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-39157-2.
(11) Li, H.; Han, Y.; Zhao, H.; Qi, W.; Zhang, D.; Yu, Y.; Cai, W.; Li, S.; Lai, J.; Huang, B.;
Wang, L. Fast Site-to-Site Electron Transfer of High-Entropy Alloy Nanocatalyst
Driving Redox Electrocatalysis. Nat Commun 2020, 11 (1), 5437.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-19277-9.
(12) Nandan, R.; Nara, H.; Nam, H. N.; Phung, Q. M.; Ngo, Q. P.; Na, J.; Henzie, J.;
Yamauchi, Y. Tailored Design of Mesoporous Nanospheres with High Entropic Alloy
Sites for Efficient Redox Electrocatalysis. Adv Sci 2024, 11 (35), 2402518.
https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.202402518.
(13) Luo, M.; Koper, M. T. M. A Kinetic Descriptor for the Electrolyte Effect on the Oxygen
Reduction Kinetics on Pt(111). Nat Catal 2022, 5 (7), 615–623.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00810-6.
(14) Zhao, Z.; Chen, C.; Liu, Z.; Huang, J.; Wu, M.; Liu, H.; Li, Y.; Huang, Y. Pt‐Based
Nanocrystal for Electrocatalytic Oxygen Reduction. Adv Mater 2019, 31 (31), 1808115.
https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201808115.
(15) Lončar, A.; Escalera‐López, D.; Cherevko, S.; Hodnik, N. Inter‐relationships between
Oxygen Evolution and Iridium Dissolution Mechanisms. Angew Chem Int Ed 2022, 61
(14), e202114437. https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202114437.
(16) Lin, Y.; Dong, Y.; Wang, X.; Chen, L. Electrocatalysts for the Oxygen Evolution
Reaction in Acidic Media. Adv Mater 2023, 35 (22), 2210565.
https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202210565.
(17) Yang, P.-P.; Gao, M.-R. Enrichment of Reactants and Intermediates for
Electrocatalytic CO Reduction. Chem Soc Rev 2023, 52 (13), 4343–4380.
2
https://doi.org/10.1039/D2CS00849A.
(18) Yang, X.; Zhang, Y. Prediction of High-Entropy Stabilized Solid-Solution in Multi-
Component Alloys. Mater Chem Phys 2012, 132 (2–3), 233–238.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matchemphys.2011.11.021.
(19) Guo, S.; Liu, C. T. Phase Stability in High Entropy Alloys: Formation of Solid-Solution
25

Phase or Amorphous Phase. Prog Nat Sci: Mater Int 2011, 21 (6), 433–446.
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1002-0071(12)60080-X.
(20) Chen, L.; Liang, X.; Wang, D.; Yang, Z.; He, C.-T.; Zhao, W.; Pei, J.; Xue, Y. Platinum–
Ruthenium Single Atom Alloy as a Bifunctional Electrocatalyst toward Methanol and
Hydrogen Oxidation Reactions. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 2022, 14 (24), 27814–
27822. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c02905.
(21) Zhang, Z.; Liu, J.; Wang, J.; Wang, Q.; Wang, Y.; Wang, K.; Wang, Z.; Gu, M.; Tang,
Z.; Lim, J.; Zhao, T.; Ciucci, F. Single-Atom Catalyst for High-Performance Methanol
Oxidation. Nat Commun 2021, 12 (1), 5235. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-
25562-y.
(22) Lakhanlal; Caspary Toroker, M. Filling the Gaps on the Relation between Electronic
Conductivity and Catalysis of Electrocatalysts for Water Splitting Using Computational
Modelling. Curr Opin Electrochem 2023, 40, 101342.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coelec.2023.101342.
(23) Banoth, P.; Kandula, C.; Kollu, P. Introduction to Electrocatalysts; American Chemical
Society, 2022; pp 1–37. https://doi.org/10.1021/bk-2022-1432.ch001.
(24) Li, P.; Huang, J.; Hu, Y.; Chen, S. Establishment of the Potential of Zero Charge of
Metals in Aqueous Solutions: Different Faces of Water Revealed by Ab Initio Molecular
Dynamics Simulations. J Phys Chem C 2021, 125 (7), 3972–3979.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c11089.
(25) Le, J.-B.; Fan, Q.-Y.; Li, J.-Q.; Cheng, J. Molecular Origin of Negative Component of
Helmholtz Capacitance at Electrified Pt(111)/Water Interface. Sci Adv 2020, 6 (41),
eabb1219. https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.abb1219.
(26) Yeetsorn, R.; Kumar Yogesh, G.; Wanchan, W.; Koinkar, P.; Yadav, K. Molybdenum‐
based Nanocatalysts for CO Oxidation Reactions in Direct Alcohol Fuel Cells: A
Critical Review. ChemCatChem 2023, 15 (22), e202301040.
https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202301040.
(27) Batchelor, T. A. A.; Pedersen, J. K.; Winther, S. H.; Castelli, I. E.; Jacobsen, K. W.;
Rossmeisl, J. High-Entropy Alloys as a Discovery Platform for Electrocatalysis. Joule
2019, 3 (3), 834–845. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2018.12.015.
(28) Li, Z.; Wang, S.; Chin, W. S.; Achenie, L. E.; Xin, H. High-Throughput Screening of
Bimetallic Catalysts Enabled by Machine Learning. J Mater Chem A 2017, 5 (46),
24131–24138. https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA01812F.
(29) Shi, T.-T.; Liu, G.-Y.; Chen, Z.-X. Machine Learning Prediction of CO Adsorption
Energies and Properties of Layered Alloys Using an Improved Feature Selection
Algorithm. J Phys Chem C 2023, 127 (20), 9573–9583.
26

https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c09020.
(30) Roy, D.; Mandal, S. C.; Pathak, B. Machine Learning Assisted Exploration of High
Entropy Alloy-Based Catalysts for Selective CO Reduction to Methanol. J Phys Chem
2
Lett 2022, 13 (25), 5991–6002. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.2c00929.
(31) Oliaei, H.; Aluru, N. R. Study of the Adsorption Sites of High Entropy Alloys for CO
2
Reduction Using Graph Convolutional Network. APL Mach Learn 2024, 2 (2), 026103.
https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0198043.
(32) Prokhorenkova, L.; Gusev, G.; Vorobev, A.; Dorogush, A. V.; Gulin, A. Catboost:
Unbiased Boosting with Categorical Features. Adv Neural Inf Process
Syst 2018, 31, 6638–6648. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1706.09516.
(33) Vitos, L.; Ruban, A. V.; Skriver, H. L.; Kollár, J. The Surface Energy of Metals. Surf Sci
1998, 411 (1–2), 186–202. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0039-6028(98)00363-X.
(34) Yan, X. H.; Liaw, P. K.; Zhang, Y. Order and Disorder in Amorphous and High-Entropy
Materials. Metall Mater Trans A Phys Metall Mater Sci 2021, 52 (6), 2111–2122.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11661-021-06250-4.
(35) Wu, D.; Kusada, K.; Nanba, Y.; Koyama, M.; Yamamoto, T.; Toriyama, T.; Matsumura,
S.; Seo, O.; Gueye, I.; Kim, J.; Rosantha Kumara, L. S.; Sakata, O.; Kawaguchi, S.;
Kubota, Y.; Kitagawa, H. Noble-Metal High-Entropy-Alloy Nanoparticles: Atomic-Level
Insight into the Electronic Structure. J Am Chem Soc 2022, 144 (8), 3365–3369.
https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c13616.
(36) Yao, Y.; Dong, Q.; Brozena, A.; Luo, J.; Miao, J.; Chi, M.; Wang, C.; Kevrekidis, I. G.;
Ren, Z. J.; Greeley, J.; Wang, G.; Anapolsky, A.; Hu, L. High-Entropy Nanoparticles:
Synthesis-Structure-Property Relationships and Data-Driven Discovery. Science
2022, 376 (6589), eabn3103. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.abn3103.
(37) Miracle, D. B.; Senkov, O. N. A Critical Review of High Entropy Alloys and Related
Concepts. Acta Mater 2017, 122, 448–511.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2016.08.081.
(38) Lai, L.; Yang, G.; Zhang, Q.; Yu, H.; Peng, F. Essential Analysis of Cyclic Voltammetry
of Methanol Electrooxidation Using the Differential Electrochemical Mass
Spectrometry. J Power Sources 2021, 509, 230397.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2021.230397.
(39) Zhu, J.; Xia, L.; Yu, R.; Lu, R.; Li, J.; He, R.; Wu, Y.; Zhang, W.; Hong, X.; Chen, W.;
Zhao, Y.; Zhou, L.; Mai, L.; Wang, Z. Ultrahigh Stable Methanol Oxidation Enabled by
a High Hydroxyl Concentration on Pt Clusters/MXene Interfaces. J Am Chem Soc
2022, 144 (34), 15529–15538. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c03982.
(40) Sulaiman, J. E.; Zhu, S.; Xing, Z.; Chang, Q.; Shao, M. Pt–Ni Octahedra as
27

Electrocatalysts for the Ethanol Electro-Oxidation Reaction. ACS Catal 2017, 7 (8),
5134–5141. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b01435.
(41) Erini, N.; Beermann, V.; Gocyla, M.; Gliech, M.; Heggen, M.; Dunin‐Borkowski, R. E.;
Strasser, P. The Effect of Surface Site Ensembles on the Activity and Selectivity of
Ethanol Electrooxidation by Octahedral PtNiRh Nanoparticles. Angew Chem Int Ed
2017, 56 (23), 6533–6538. https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201702332.
(42) Lin, W. F.; Christensen, P. A.; Hamnett, A.; Zei, M. S.; Ertl, G. The Electro-Oxidation
of CO at the Ru(0001) Single-Crystal Electrode Surface. J Phys Chem B 2000, 104
(28), 6642–6652. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp000936u.
(43) Chang, J.; Feng, L.; Jiang, K.; Xue, H.; Cai, W.-B.; Liu, C.; Xing, W. Pt–CoP/C as an
Alternative PtRu/C Catalyst for Direct Methanol Fuel Cells. J Mater Chem A 2016, 4
(47), 18607–18613. https://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA07896F.
(44) Lu, G.-Q.; Sun, S.-G.; Cai, L.-R.; Chen, S.-P.; Tian, Z.-W.; Shiu, K.-K. In Situ FTIR
Spectroscopic Studies of Adsorption of CO, SCN-, and Poly(o-Phenylenediamine) on
Electrodes of Nanometer Thin Films of Pt, Pd, and Rh: Abnormal Infrared Effects
(AIREs). Langmuir 2000, 16 (2), 778–786. https://doi.org/10.1021/la990282k.
(45) Li, M.; Zhao, Z.; Zhang, W.; Luo, M.; Tao, L.; Sun, Y.; Xia, Z.; Chao, Y.; Yin, K.; Zhang,
Q.; Gu, L.; Yang, W.; Yu, Y.; Lu, G.; Guo, S. Sub‐Monolayer YO /MoO on Ultrathin
x x
Pt Nanowires Boosts Alcohol Oxidation Electrocatalysis. Adv Mater 2021, 33 (41),
2103762. https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202103762.
(46) Yajima, T.; Uchida, H.; Watanabe, M. In-Situ ATR-FTIR Spectroscopic Study of
Electro-Oxidation of Methanol and Adsorbed CO at Pt−Ru Alloy. J Phys Chem B 2004,
108 (8), 2654–2659. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp037215q.
(47) Celorrio, V.; Quaino, P. M.; Santos, E.; Flórez-Montaño, J.; Humphrey, J. J. L.; Guillén-
Villafuerte, O.; Plana, D.; Lázaro, M. J.; Pastor, E.; Fermín, D. J. Strain Effects on the
Oxidation of CO and HCOOH on Au–Pd Core–Shell Nanoparticles. ACS Catal 2017,
7 (3), 1673–1680. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b03237.
(48) Kar, T.; Scheiner, S.; Roy, A. K.; Bettinger, H. F. Unusual Low-Vibrational C═O Mode
of COOH Can Distinguish between Carboxylated Zigzag and Armchair Single-Wall
Carbon Nanotubes. J Phys Chem C 2012, 116 (49), 26072–26083.
https://doi.org/10.1021/jp309699z.
(49) Herold, F.; Leubner, O.; Jeschonek, K.; Hess, C.; Drochner, A.; Qi, W.; Etzold, B. J. M.
Methodology for the Identification of Carbonyl Absorption Maxima of Carbon Surface
Oxides in DRIFT Spectra. Carbon Trends 2021, 3, 100020.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cartre.2020.100020.
(50) He, L.; Li, M.; Qiu, L.; Geng, S.; Liu, Y.; Tian, F.; Luo, M.; Liu, H.; Yu, Y.; Yang, W.; Guo,
28

S. Single-Atom Mo-Tailored High-Entropy-Alloy Ultrathin Nanosheets with Intrinsic
Tensile Strain Enhance Electrocatalysis. Nat Commun 2024, 15 (1), 2290.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-45874-z.
(51) Yin, K.; Chao, Y.; Zeng, L.; Li, M.; Liu, F.; Guo, S.; Li, H. Ultrathin PtRu Nanowires as
Efficient and Stable Electrocatalyst for Liquid Fuel Oxidation Reactions. Energy Mater
Adv 2022, 2022, 9871842. https://doi.org/10.34133/2022/9871842.
(52) Queiroz, B. D.; Vital, P.-L. S.; Budke, K. O.; Rey-Raap, N.; Arenillas, A.; Barra, G. M.
O.; Ferreira, D. S.; Camara, G. A.; Wender, H.; Martins, C. A. A Comprehensive
Investigation of Methanol Electrooxidation on Copper Anodes:
Spectroelectrochemical Insights and Energy Conversion in Microfluidic Fuel Cells.
ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 2024, 16 (27), 35255–35267.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.4c08472.
(53) Eltayeb, S.; Carroll, L. L.; Correa-Hoyos, J. M.; Feldt, C. D.; Switon, B.; Riedel, W.;
Moskaleva, L. V.; Risse, T. Unraveling the Role of Water in Isothermal Methanol Partial
Oxidation to Methyl Formate on Gold: A Combined Experimental and Computational
Study. J Phys Chem C 2025, 129 (3), 1611–1626.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.4c05968.
(54) Belletti, G. D.; Colombo, E.; Cabana, N.; Quaino, P.; Collins, S. Mechanistic
Investigation of Methanol Oxidation on Au/TiO2: A Combined DRIFT and DFT Study.
Top Catal 2022, 65 (7–8), 915–925. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11244-022-01620-7.
(55) Koch, H. P.; Krenn, G.; Bako, I.; Schennach, R. A Reflection Absorption Infrared
Spectroscopy and Density-Functional Theory Investigation of Methanol
Dehydrogenation on Rh(111)∕V Alloy Surfaces. J Chem Phys 2005, 122 (24), 244720.
https://doi.org/10.1063/1.1944728.
(56) Kresse, G.; Furthmüller, J. Efficient Iterative Schemes for Ab Initio Total-Energy
Calculations Using a Plane-Wave Basis Set. Phys Rev B 1996, 54 (16), 11169–11186.
https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.54.11169.
(57) Kresse, G.; Joubert, D. From Ultrasoft Pseudopotentials to the Projector Augmented-
Wave Method. Phys Rev B 1999, 59 (3), 1758–1775.
https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.59.1758.
(58) Hammer, B.; Hansen, L. B.; Nørskov, J. K. Improved Adsorption Energetics within
Density-Functional Theory Using Revised Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof Functionals. Phys
Rev B 1999, 59 (11), 7413–7421. https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.59.7413.
(59) Grimme, S.; Ehrlich, S.; Goerigk, L. Effect of the Damping Function in Dispersion
Corrected Density Functional Theory. J Comput Chem 2011, 32 (7), 1456–1465.
https://doi.org/10.1002/jcc.21759.
29

(60) Fukushima, T.; Akai, H.; Chikyow, T.; Kino, H. Automatic Exhaustive Calculations of
Large Material Space by Korringa-Kohn-Rostoker Coherent Potential Approximation
Method Applied to Equiatomic Quaternary High Entropy Alloys. Phys Rev Mater 2022,
6 (2), 023802. https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevMaterials.6.023802.
(61) Long, N. H.; Ogura, M.; Akai, H. Effects of Spin-Wave Excitations in Half-Metallic
Materials. Phys Rev B 2012, 85 (22), 224437.
https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.85.224437.
(62) Akai, H. Fast Korringa-Kohn-Rostoker Coherent Potential Approximation and Its
Application to FCC Ni-Fe Systems. J Phys Condens 1989, 1 (43), 8045–8064.
https://doi.org/10.1088/0953-8984/1/43/006.
(63) Nam, H. N.; Phung, Q. M.; Suzuki, K.; Shinya, H.; Masago, A.; Fukushima, T.; Sato,
K. Exploring Finite-Temperature Electronic Transport in CoSi Alloys with Transition
Metals (Cr, Mn, Fe, and Ni) Using the KKR-CPA Method. J Mater Chem A 2024, 12
(1), 451–459. https://doi.org/10.1039/D3TA06259G.
(64) Wang, V.; Xu, N.; Liu, J.-C.; Tang, G.; Geng, W.-T. VASPKIT: A User-Friendly Interface
Facilitating High-Throughput Computing and Analysis Using VASP Code. Comput
Phys Commun 2021, 267, 108033. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2021.108033.
(65) Nam, H. N.; Phung, Q. M.; Choeichom, P.; Yamauchi, Y.; Saito, N. First-Principles
Studies of Enhanced Oxygen Reduction Reactions on Graphene- and Nitrogen-
Doped Graphene-Coated Platinum Surfaces. Phys Chem Chem Phys 2024, 26 (14),
10711–10722. https://doi.org/10.1039/D4CP00269E.
(66) Nørskov, J. K.; Rossmeisl, J.; Logadottir, A.; Lindqvist, L.; Kitchin, J. R.; Bligaard, T.;
Jónsson, H. Origin of the Overpotential for Oxygen Reduction at a Fuel-Cell Cathode.
J Phys Chem B 2004, 108 (46), 17886–17892. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp047349j.
(67) Islam, S. M. R.; Khezeli, F.; Ringe, S.; Plaisance, C. An Implicit Electrolyte Model for
Plane Wave Density Functional Theory Exhibiting Nonlinear Response and a Nonlocal
Cavity Definition. J Chem Phys 2023, 159 (23), 234117.
https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0176308.
(68) Chanussot, L.; Das, A.; Goyal, S.; Lavril, T.; Shuaibi, M.; Riviere, M.; Tran, K.; Heras-
Domingo, J.; Ho, C.; Hu, W.; Palizhati, A.; Sriram, A.; Wood, B.; Yoon, J.; Parikh, D.;
Zitnick, C. L.; Ulissi, Z. Open Catalyst 2020 (OC20) Dataset and Community
Challenges. ACS Catal 2021, 11 (10), 6059–6072.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c04525.
(69) Tran, R.; Lan, J.; Shuaibi, M.; Wood, B. M.; Goyal, S.; Das, A.; Heras-Domingo, J.;
Kolluru, A.; Rizvi, A.; Shoghi, N.; Sriram, A.; Therrien, F.; Abed, J.; Voznyy, O.; Sargent,
E. H.; Ulissi, Z.; Zitnick, C. L. The Open Catalyst 2022 (OC22) Dataset and Challenges
30

for Oxide Electrocatalysts. ACS Catal 2023, 13 (5), 3066–3084.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05426.
(70) Musielewicz, J.; Wang, X.; Tian, T.; Ulissi, Z. FINETUNA: Fine-Tuning Accelerated
Molecular Simulations. Mach Learn Sci Technol 2022, 3 (3), 03LT01.
https://doi.org/10.1088/2632-2153/ac8fe0.
(71) Pedretti, E.; Restuccia, P.; Righi, M. C. Xsorb: A Software for Identifying the Most
Stable Adsorption Configuration and Energy of a Molecule on a Crystal Surface.
Comput Phys Commun 2023, 291, 108827.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2023.108827.
(72) Pedersen, J. K.; Clausen, C. M.; Krysiak, O. A.; Xiao, B.; Batchelor, T. A. A.; Löffler,
T.; Mints, V. A.; Banko, L.; Arenz, M.; Savan, A.; Schuhmann, W.; Ludwig, A.;
Rossmeisl, J. Bayesian Optimization of High‐Entropy Alloy Compositions for
Electrocatalytic Oxygen Reduction. Angew Chem Int Ed 2021, 60 (45), 24144–24152.
https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202108116.
31

TOC Graphic
32

