S1-MatAgent: A planner driven multi-agent system for material discovery
Xinrui Wang1, 2†, Chengbo Li3, 4†, Boxuan Zhang1, 2, Jiahui Shi1, 2*, Nian Ran3, 4*, Linjing
Li1, 2, Jianjun Liu3, 4, 5, Dajun Zeng1, 2
Affiliations:
1State Key Laboratory of Multimodal Artificial Intelligence Systems, Institute of
Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China.
2School of Artificial Intelligence, University of Chinese Academy of Science, Beijing
100049, China.
3State Key Laboratory of High Performance Ceramics, Shanghai Institute of Ceramics,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200050, China.
4Center of Materials Science and Optoelectronics Engineering, University of Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.
5School of Chemistry and Materials Science, Hangzhou Institute for Advanced Study,
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hangzhou 310024, China.
†These authors contributed equally to this work.
*Corresponding author. Email: N.R. (rannian@mail.sic.ac.cn), J. S. (jiahui.shi@ia.ac.cn)

Abstract: The discovery of high-performance materials is crucial for technological
advancement. Inverse design using multi-agent systems (MAS) shows great potential for new
material discovery. However, current MAS for materials research rely on predefined
configurations and tools, limiting their adaptability and scalability. To address these limitations,
we developed a planner driven multi-agent system (S1-MatAgent) which adopts a Planner-
Executor architecture. Planner automatically decomposes complex materials design tasks,
dynamically configures various tools to generate dedicated Executor agents for each subtask,
significantly reducing reliance on manual workflow construction and specialized configuration.
Applied to high-entropy alloy catalysts for hydrogen evolution reactions in alkaline conditions,
S1-MatAgent completed full-cycle closed-loop design from literature analysis and composition
recommendation to performance optimization and experimental validation. To tackle the
deviations between designed materials and target, as well as high experimental verification
costs, S1-MatAgent employs a novel composition optimization algorithm based on gradients
of machine learning interatomic potential, achieving 27.7 % improvement in material
performance. S1-MatAgent designed 13 high-performance catalysts from 20 million
candidates, with Ni Co Cu Mo Ru exhibiting an overpotential of 18.6 mV at 10 mA cm−2 and
4 4 1 3 4
maintaining 97.5 % activity after 500 hours at 500 mA cm−2. The universal MAS framework
offers a universal and scalable solution for material discovery, significantly improving design
efficiency and adaptability.
Introduction
The discovery of high-performance and functional new materials plays a critical role in driving
technological progress and industrial development1-5. However, traditional materials research
and development face challenges such as long experimental cycles, lack of theoretical guidance
in research direction, and methodological uncertainties6,7. High-throughput computational
frameworks8 accelerate material discovery by screening promising candidate material spaces

using open materials databases9,10, density functional theory11, and machine learning12,13.
However, their reliance on expensive computing resources severely restricts the research and
development efficiency. Under this background, inverse design14,15, with the concept of
“demand-driven”, leverages technologies such as generative models16,17 and large language
models (LLMs) providing a novel approach by directly generating materials that meet specific
property requirements18,19.
Knowledge-driven LLMs, with their powerful ability to integrate text knowledge offer a
novel pathway for materials inverse design and demonstrate unique advantages20,21. However,
materials design is a complex system engineering that involves multiple levels of decision-
making, including demand analysis, composition selection, performance prediction, and
verification iteration. These tasks are highly coupled and mutually constraining22. Although
LLMs possess broad general knowledge, it is difficult for LLMs to independently handle such
complex design demands characterized by multiple stages, types, and objectives. This can
easily affect the feasibility and reliability of the designed materials. Furthermore, since LLMs
cannot directly interact with the physical world. If all candidate materials were to be
synthesized and verified one by one by researchers, it would result in extremely high time and
economic costs. This creates a significant gap between design stage and verification-
optimization stage, limiting the iterative efficiency and overall progress of materials design and
optimization. Therefore, how to globally coordinate and dynamically plan multi-stage task
sequences, while efficiently evaluating and optimizing the performance of generated materials,
has become a key challenge in advancing the application of LLMs in materials inverse design.
With the development of artificial intelligence, LLM-driven multi-agent systems (MAS),
leveraging their knowledge comprehension and reasoning capabilities, can dynamically plan
tasks based on understanding the complex requirements of materials design23,24. These agents
flexibly employ various tools, such as literature retrieval, computational simulation, and
experimental data processing, to achieve material design and optimization, offering an effective

approach for the inverse design of new materials. For example, Ghafarollahi A et al. used
computation agents to solve problems requiring detailed atomic simulations in materials design,
significantly improving the efficiency of developing and analyzing crystalline materials at the
atomic scale25. Similarly, Hao Li’s team introduced agents to construct machine learning
models from experimental data, efficiently revealing ion migration mechanisms in solid-state
electrolytes26. In addition, various specialized agents, including structure generation agents for
new material27, data extraction and reasoning agents for material data28, and experimental
agents for material synthesis29, have enabled comprehensive analysis and design of materials
by leveraging professional knowledge and versatile tools.
However, these agents currently rely on manually constructed fixed workflows. Due to
the coupled multi-stage tasks and complex non-standardized requirements involved in
materials inverse design, this manually defined method places high demands on researchers’
understanding of the problem. In order to reduce the dependency of workflow creation on the
experience of researchers and make the task-solving process more flexible, some efforts have
begun to explore approaches for task planning. Adib Bazgir et al. utilizes chain-of-thought
technology in material multi-agent systems to generate workflows and accordingly dispatches
various predefined functional agents30. Lianhao Zhou et al. proposed framework can first
decompose tasks into subtask sequences using a large reasoning model and human intuition,
and then attempt to generate instrumental code for each subtask31. However, these works do
not prioritize the hierarchical relationships within workflows during the task planning process,
and still rely on predefined or partially predefined agents to execute every subtask, limiting the
versatility and applicability of MAS in the field of materials design.
To address the above challenges, we developed a novel planner driven multi-agent system
(S1-MatAgent) for material discovery. S1-MatAgent is capable of automatically decomposing
complex materials design tasks and dynamically planning their execution. It breaks down the
materials design process into multiple collaboratively subtask units, such as literature mining,

composition generation, structure construction, property calculation, and optimization
adjustment. Based on the stage results, it autonomously adjusts design strategies and execution
path. Through multi-agent collaboration mechanism, S1-MatAgent achieves closed-loop
design workflow, effectively reducing the difficulties arising from multi-factor coupling. To
tackle issues of deviation between design materials and targets caused by the hallucination of
LLMs and reasoning errors based on incomplete knowledge, as well as high cost of
experimental verification, S1-MatAgent integrates lightweight computation agents and
materials optimization agents. By leveraging tools such as machine learning interatomic
potential (MLIP) and performance descriptors, it enables rapid performance evaluation and
iterative optimization of candidate materials. This approach effectively compensates for the
limitations of LLMs in physical perception and verification optimization, thereby enhancing
the reliability and iterative efficiency of materials design.
We validated the performance of S1-MatAgent by applying it to the inverse design of
high-entropy alloy (HEA) catalyst for alkaline hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), a
challenging task characterized by data scarcity and a vast space of element combinations. S1-
MatAgent successfully designed 13 high-performance catalysts from a design space
comprising 20 million candidate catalysts. Experimental results demonstrated that S1-
MatAgent designed novel catalyst Ni Co Cu Mo Ru exhibits an overpotential of 18.6 mV at
4 4 1 3 4
a current density of 10 mA cm−2 and maintained 97.5 % of its performance after 500 hours
HER at 500 mA cm−2. S1-MatAgent not only effectively addresses the challenges of multi-task
coupling and verification optimization in materials inverse design, but also demonstrates high
efficiency and reliability in practical materials discovery. It provides a universal solution for
materials inverse design.

Results
Architecture of S1-MatAgent and related tool chains
Leveraging the extensive world knowledge and advanced tool-calling capabilities of LLMs,
agents built upon these models have exhibited a degree of versatility and efficiency in materials
science that surpasses human experts. In current MAS designed for materials research, each
agent’s profile, functions, and tools are typically rigidly predefined. These functionally
specialized agents operate as fixed “processes” within a manually configured workflow. While
effective for narrow tasks, this architecture, particularly in complex applications such as
materials reverse design, heavily depends on the researchers’ preconceived understanding of
task decomposition. As a result, it considerably restricts the MAS’s capacity for exploratory
problem-solving and limits its adaptability and scalability to new tasks.
Unlike the traditional agent collaboration framework where researchers manually define
task links and configure interaction logic among multiple agents, S1-MatAgent adopts a
Planner-Executor architecture which incorporates dynamic workflow generation and adaptive
agent configuration. Acting as a central scheduler, the Planner interacts directly with the user
to receive a root task, automatically builds task workflows, and automatically generates several
Executors to solve each subtask. Executor here refers to a task-specific customized agent,
which incorporates unique system messages and a dedicated toolset.
The Planner of S1-MatAgent uses an LLM-based planning agent, which manages the
autonomous, dynamic development of task workflows. Upon receiving a user request, Planner
first analyzes the available tools to determine whether the task can be solved directly. For
complex problems that require decomposition, Planner breaks them down into a set of parallel
or sequential subtasks by constructing a hierarchical task network (HTN). For each compound
task in HTN, it will be decomposed into subtasks until the task is primitive. This decomposition
results in a tree structure that captures both task hierarchy and temporal dependencies, which
is systematically recorded in a working memory file. Based on the dependency relationships

within the tree, Planner constructs an executable workflow and assigns dedicated agents as
Executors, equipped with tailored profile and toolset, to address each active subtask. As
Executors return their results, Planner updates working memory and autonomously triggers
subsequent subtasks. Once all subtasks under a parent task are completed, Planner aggregates
their outcomes into a comprehensive final result (Fig. 1a).
Figure 1b shows the complete HTN by breaking down the material design task: “Design
highly active high-entropy alloy catalysts for hydrogen evolution reaction in an alkaline
environment based on literatures”. The toolset provided includes tools for literature analysis,
coding, HEA recommendation, and HEA optimization, et al. The root task is structured into
two phases and four subtasks: first, extraction and statistical analysis of components based on
literature information (Subtask 1, Fig. 1b), followed by component recommendation and
optimization (Subtask 2, Fig. 1b).
Fig.1 | S1-MatAgent: A planner driven multi-agent dynamic collaborative system for material reverse
design. a The planner’s dynamic creation of a hierarchical task decomposition tree, building of workflows,
and dynamic configuration of agents to perform primitive tasks. b Task decomposition tree diagram of
catalysts design task.
Figure 2 shows all Executors of subtasks in the HEA design task. Executor 1.1 uses
Literature Extraction Tool to extract potential chemical formulas from text using methods such

as element name unification and regular expression matching. Executor 1.2 uses Metal Element
Frequency Statistics Tool to automatically write and execute code using a LLM to count the
frequencies of metal elements in a batch of chemical formulas and plot a frequency histogram.
Executor 2.1 uses HEA Recommendation Tool to recommend potential high-activity HEA
along with justification and references. Recommendation is completely based on a
comprehensive analysis on given literatures by the ScienceOne model32. After that, all
recommended compositions are integrated, illegal compositions are filtered out, and formatted
recommendations are generated. Executor 2.2 uses HEA Optimization Tool, based on
mechanism modeling and MLIP gradients, iteratively optimizes previously recommended
components until activity no longer improves.
During the literature information processing phase, S1-MatAgent utilized a dataset
comprising 1,231 relevant articles from the past five years. This dataset, along with the root
task, was provided to the MAS. Following the pre-generated workflow, the agents of Executors
extract catalyst chemical formulas, and calculate the frequencies of metal elements (Fig. 2a-d).
Based on the extraction and statistical analysis, among the 25 metal elements mentioned in the
literature, the ten most frequent metal elements identified are Ni, Pt, Co, Fe, Mo, Ru, Cu, Ir,
Pd, and Rh (Fig. 2c and d). By extracting chemical formulas and counting the frequencies of
the metal elements within them, subsequent component recommendation and optimization
steps are focused on elements with high potential for forming highly active catalysts. This
approach significantly narrows down the search space for HEA compositions, reducing the vast
design space of 20 million possible five-element combinations from 25 metal elements into a
more manageable set of nickel-based compositions combined with four other high-probability
metal elements. In the composition recommendation phase, the subtask Executor employs the
ScienceOne model to perform a comprehensive comparison of information extracted from the
literature source. It generates multiple candidate recommendations and automatically writes
code to screen the legitimacy of the proposed components. These filtered several

recommendations serve as potential compositions for highly active high-entropy alloy catalysts
under alkaline conditions, and will undergo further activity optimization in the subsequent
workflow (Fig. 2e and f). Then, a verification and optimization process of recommended
compositions is conducted, forming the final candidate HEA for selection and synthesis by
experimenters (Fig. 2g and h).
Fig.2 | Execution process of all subtasks in the HEA design task. The Executor configuration and
execution results for the task of a-b alloy composition extraction, c-d metal frequency analyzing, e-f HEA
composition recommendation, and g-h HEA compositions optimization for better HER activity.

Evaluation and optimization of HEA compositions
In order to evaluate and optimize the activity of these candidate materials, the agent in the
material optimization task invokes a catalyst performance evaluation and component
optimization tools to iteratively refine each potential composition. This process yields a set of
recommended component configurations with improved theoretical activity, which are then
provided to experimenters for experimental synthesis and performance evaluation.
To enable S1-MatAgent to rapidly evaluate the performance of designed catalysts from
theoretical perspective, we provided a HEA structure generation tool and established a HER
activity evaluation model based on the Volmer-Tafel mechanism in combination with MLIP
(Fig. 3a). Specifically, we constructed a dataset containing 43,064 HEA structures, based on
which a MACE model33 was fine-tuned to achieve precise simulation of the HER process of
HEA. After fine-tuning, the RMSE for energy prediction of this model on the test set is only
3.3 meV per atom (Fig. 3b). The rapid quantification of the HER activity of the catalyst was
achieved by constructing HEA structure containing reaction intermediates using structure
generation tool and calculating the water adsorption energy, water dissociation energy barrier
and hydrogen adsorption-free energy during the HER process by the MACE model.
Due to hallucination of LLMs, reasoning biases based on incomplete or incorrect
knowledge, the catalysts designed may have deviations between their actual performance and
expected results. To address this, we provide a catalyst optimization algorithm for S1-
MatAgent to dynamically adjust the catalyst and optimize its performance. This optimization
algorithm achieves synchronous optimization of material element types and composition ratios
based on the gradient of the fine-tuned MACE model. Based on the computational graph of the
MACE model, we can compute the gradient of the model’s HER activity output with respect
to the elemental representation of the atomic configuration. This allows us to derive the
gradient of the HER activity with respect to the same elemental representation. Through this
approach, the contribution of each element to the HER activity, whether enhancing or

diminishing, can be quantitatively assessed. We propose that for HEA, enhancing the positive
contribution of each element to the HER activity will facilitate the design of highly active
catalysts for HER. After the model predicts the HER activity of the catalyst, the optimization
algorithm adjusts both the element composition ratios and replaces the element types
sequentially according to the gradient magnitude of each element with respect to the HER
activity. After each optimization step, the algorithm comprehensively evaluates all candidate
materials and selects new materials with superior performance for the next iteration. This
process continues until the HER activity of the material no longer significant increases (Fig.
3c). We used this optimization algorithm to optimize the HER activity of 400 HEA catalysts.
After optimization, the average activity improved from -21.12 to -15.28, representing a
significant increase of 27.7 % (Fig. 3d).
To compare the effectiveness of the gradient-based algorithm with the traditional
optimization algorithm, such as genetic algorithm34, we constructed a population of eight
components and applied the genetic algorithm to the population, compared to applying the
gradient-based optimization algorithm to each individual in the population. After 10 iterations,
our algorithm increased the highest HER activity of a population with an average final activity
2.4 times higher than that of the genetic algorithm and increase in the first round being 2.8
times greater. Considering the number of component evaluations, we equate one iteration of
gradient-based optimization for a single component to one iteration of genetic algorithm. The
median activity evaluation value of individuals in the population is plotted against the number
of iterations during gradient-based optimization. The results show that, even when starting
from a single component, more than half of the components achieve higher activity than those
optimized via the genetic algorithm, demonstrating the significant superiority of the gradient-
based algorithm (Fig. 3d).
Within a design space of 20 million candidate materials composed of 25 metal elements
for five-element HEA, ScienceOne model designed 13 highly active candidate materials. After

iterative optimization of these candidate materials through optimization algorithm, we selected
five materials Ni Mo Ru Pd Pt , Ni Fe Mo Ru Pd , Ni Mo Ru Rh Pt Ni Fe Mo Pd Pt , and
4 4 4 1 3 5 3 4 1 3 4 4 3 1 4, 4 4 4 1 3
Ni Co Cu Mo Ru suitable for laboratory synthesis for experimental verification.
4 4 1 3 4
Fig.3 | Evaluation and Optimization of HER Activity in HEA. a Schematic diagram of HER activity
assessment under alkaline conditions. b Performance of the fine-tuned MACE model for energy prediction
on the test set with partial enlarged region inserted. c One-step optimization process of the gradient-based
optimization algorithm. d Performance comparison of different component optimization algorithms. The
solid lines represent the activity optimization process of the gradient-based algorithm and genetic algorithm
for the same population of eight compositions. The dashed line indicates the average activity before and after
applying the gradient-based algorithm to all individual compositions.
Experimental verification
Figure 4 shows the electrochemical performance and morphology characterization. The LSV
curve (Fig. 4a and b) shows that Ni Co Cu Mo Ru has the most excellent HER activity,
4 4 1 3 4
achieving overpotentials of 18.6 mV at 10 mA cm−2, 93.5mV at 100 cm−2, and 146.4 mV
at 500 cm−2. In addition, Ni Co Cu Mo Ru also has a low Tafel slope (65.6 mV dec−1),
4 4 1 3 4
reflecting its outstanding HER kinetics (Fig. 4c). Nyquist plots show that Ni Co Cu Mo Ru
4 4 1 3 4
has the lowest charge transfer resistance among its counterparts, which is only 2.51Ω (Fig. 4d),
further indicating the faster kinetics process for producing H . This provides the foundation for
2

outstanding dynamics. The C values of Ni Co Cu Mo Ru is 121.9 mF cm−2, reflecting a high
dl 4 4 1 3 4
electrochemical active surface area (Fig. 4e). Moreover, it exhibits excellent stability, retaining
97.5 % of its activity after 500h at 500 mA cm−2 (Fig. 4f). Ni Co Cu Mo Ru presents a particle
4 4 1 3 4
morphology (Fig. 4g). The SEM image of the low-magnification overview and the
corresponding elemental mapping results indicate the presence and uniform distribution of Ni,
Co, Cu, Mo, Ru elements, confirming that the elemental composition of the synthesized
material is consistent with that of the designed material (Fig.4h). The above characterization
and electrochemical test results confirm the precise synthesis of the designed sample and its
excellent HER activity, verifying the feasibility of S1-MatAgent.
Fig.4 | Characterizations and alkaline HER performance. a, LSV curves, b, overpotential values, c, Tafel
values, d-e, EIS curves and C values of Ni Mo Ru Pd Pt , Ni Fe Mo Ru Pd , Ni Mo Ru Rh Pt ,
dl 4 4 4 1 3 5 3 4 1 3 4 4 3 1 4
Ni Fe Mo Pd Pt and Ni Co Cu Mo Ru . f, Stability test of Ni Co Cu Mo Ru at 500 mA cm−2 for 500hrs.
4 4 4 1 3, 4 4 1 3 4 4 4 1 3 4

g-h, SEM image and elemental mapping of Ni Co Cu Mo Ru .
4 4 1 3 4
Discussion
This study proposes a planner driven multi-agent system (S1-MatAgent) to address the core
challenges faced by LLMs in materials inverse design, such as multi-stage task coupling, lack
of domain knowledge, and limited verification and optimization capabilities. Based on a
Planner-Executor architecture, S1-MatAgent enables automatic decomposition and dynamic
planning of complex material design tasks, significantly reducing reliance on manual workflow
construction and specialized configuration, while enhancing versatility and adaptability in
materials design. S1-MatAgent is highly scalable, and more tools can be added as needed and
more functions can be freely configured. S1-MatAgent incorporates a gradient-based
optimization algorithm designed to improve material performance. This algorithm can achieve
a 27.7 % enhancement of designed materials, effectively compensating for the deficiencies of
LLMs in material verification and closed-loop optimization. In the case on designing HEA
catalysts for alkaline HER, S1-MatAgent successfully achieved full-cycle closed-loop design
from literature analysis and component recommendation to performance optimization and
experimental verification. Among the 13 high-performance materials designed from 20 million
design spaces, the designed Ni Co Cu Mo Ru catalyst exhibited an overpotential of 18.6 mV
4 4 1 3 4
at a current density of 10 mA cm−2 and maintained 97.5 % of its HER performance after 500
hours HER at 500 mA cm−2.
This research provides a universal intelligent agent framework for materials inverse
design of complex material systems, promoting paradigm shift in AI-driven materials research
from single-point assistance through manual configuration to full-process autonomous
planning. Future work will focus on extending S1-MatAgent to diverse multi-component
material systems and exploring seamless integration with automated experimental platforms to
enable higher-throughput material design and discovery.

Methods
HER mechanism modeling and activity descriptors
To evaluate the catalytic activity of HEA components in the HER under alkaline conditions
during the component optimization phase, we constructed a HER activity descriptor. Based on
the Volmer-Tafel mechanism, we modeled the HER of the HEA as a three-step reaction: water
adsorption, water dissociation, and the Tafel reaction. By calculating the enthalpy changes or
kinetic barriers of these three elementary reactions, we can assess the ease with which these
three steps occur. In alkaline environments, the protons for HER originate from water
dissociation, which adds an additional energy barrier and significantly reduces the reaction
kinetics. Therefore, during the component optimization phase, we used the inverse of the water
dissociation kinetic barrier as the activity descriptor and optimized candidate highly active
components by maximizing this activity descriptor. After the optimization algorithm
converged, the multi-agent system provided feedback on the final list of potential highly active
components, which were then screened by experts using a combination of water adsorption
enthalpy changes, Tafel reaction enthalpy changes, and expert experience.
For water adsorption on slabs, the enthalpy change calculations for the Tafel reaction, and
the kinetic barrier calculations for water dissociation, we perform calculations for all possible
adsorption sites on the surface and take the average of the calculated values for all sites as the
calculation result for that substrate. The kinetic barrier is approximated using the structural
difference method, which is the energy difference between the highest energy structure and the
initial structure.
Construction of HEA MLIP model
In recent years, methods based on machine learning algorithms to construct potential models,
such as MACE, have demonstrated remarkable superiority in predicting interatomic interaction
potentials due to their high efficiency and accuracy. We constructed a dataset of structures of
HEA slabs and their adsorbed intermediates to fine-tune the MACE model. Specifically, the

dataset covers slab structures and their adsorbed intermediates, constructed with for every
elemental quinary combination across a range of allowed compositional ratios. Ultimately, 630
trajectories and 43,064 configurations with energy and force labels were obtained.
We used this dataset to perform multi-head fine-tuning on MACE to prevent catastrophic
forgetting. The fine-tuned potential model achieved an RMSE of 3.3 meV per atom on the
energy of the test set.
Gradient-based Composition Optimization Algorithm
Previous applications of MLIPs have often been restricted to extracting specific quantitative
values, such as energy or force, from the model outputs. These values are then used in
downstream tasks, such as high-throughput screening. However, MLIPs inherently construct
an end-to-end computational graph that maps atomic configurations to property predictions.
Utilizing only the final numerical outputs obtained through forward propagation represents an
underutilization of this comprehensive computational structure.
We developed a composition optimization algorithm based on the gradient of a MLIP to
perform an efficient heuristic search in the compositions’ space. We define a composition as
the union of element types and element ratios. At each iteration, we use the MLIP model to
obtain the average gradient of the activity descriptor for each element corresponding to the
current composition. The element with the lowest gradient is then replaced. Two replacement
strategies are considered: changing element ratios, where the content of the element is reduced
by one unit and the content of another element is increased by one unit; and changing element
types, where all atoms of the element are replaced with atoms of another candidate element.
During the entire substitution process, we only consider compositions that preserve the
maximum nickel content within the quinary alloy while maintaining elemental ratios between
5 % and 35 %. The activity of all candidate compositions obtained by the two replacement
strategies is evaluated sequentially. If the optimal activity among the candidate compositions
is better than that of the current composition, the current composition is replaced by this

candidate. The composition optimization algorithm starts from an initial composition and
proceeds through successive iterations of optimization until no candidate composition
outperforms the current one, thereby yielding the final optimized composition.
To demonstrate the superiority of our algorithm, we compared the composition
optimization algorithm based on machine learning potential gradients with a genetic algorithm.
In each generation of the genetic algorithm, a new population is constructed: the composition
with the highest activity from the previous generation is retained, while the rest are generated
through mating, crossover, and mutation processes based on parent compositions from the prior
generation. Considering that the gradient-based method evaluates approximately 7 candidate
compositions per iteration, we set the population size to 8 so that both algorithms assess a
similar number of compositions per round.
During the generation of each offspring in a round, parent compositions are selected
according to the activity performance of individuals from the previous generation. To ensure
that each offspring composition consists of exactly five elements, we first perform element
matching, followed by a single-point crossover triggered with an 80 % probability, meaning 1
to 4 elements are exchanged between the parent compositions simultaneously, while ensuring
the same two elements are not crossed into the same offspring. The newly exchanged elements
are proportionally reintegrated into the remaining elemental ratios of the original composition.
A mutation operation is then triggered with a 20 % probability to finally yield one offspring
composition.
Mutation occurs with equal likelihood between ratio mutation and element mutation. In
ratio mutation, the composition is randomly altered to any valid composition within a
Hamming distance of 2 from the original. In element mutation, one non-Ni element is randomly
replaced by another candidate element. After constructing the population each round, the
genetic algorithm evaluates the activity of each composition as the individual’s fitness. The

iteration stops when the best fitness in the current generation equals that of the previous
generation.
Materials and reagents
KOH, Ni(NO ) ·6H O, Fe(NO ) ·9H O, Co(NO ) ·6H O, (NH ) MoO ·4H O, K RuCl ,
3 3 2 3 3 2 3 2 2 4 2 4 2 3 6
K RhCl , H PtCl ·6H O, Na PdCl , Cu(NO ) ·3H O and NaBH were brought from Aladdin
3 6 2 6 2 2 4 3 2 2 4
Chemical Reagent Company (Shanghai, China). All aqueous solutions were prepared using
ultrapure water (resistivity = 18.2 MΩ cm, Milli-Q water) throughout the whole experiments.
Material synthesis
Preparation of Ni Mo Ru Pd Pt , Ni Fe Mo Ru Pd , Ni Mo Ru Rh Pt Ni Fe Mo Pd Pt , and
4 4 4 1 3 5 3 4 1 3 4 4 3 1 4, 4 4 4 1 3
Ni Co Cu Mo Ru : An aqueous solution containing Ni(NO ) ·6H O, Fe(NO ) ·9H O,
4 4 1 3 4 3 3 2 3 3 2
Co(NO ) ·6H O, (NH ) MoO ·4H O, K RuCl , K RhCl , H PtCl ·6H O, Na PdCl , and
3 2 2 4 2 4 2 3 6 3 6 2 6 2 2 4
Cu(NO ) ·3H O with a total metal ion concentration of 320 mM. The concentration of each
3 2 2
metal ion is allocated in molar ratio. Additionally, 80 mM NaBH was added. After continuous
4
stirring at 500 r min−1 for 40 min, the mixture was centrifuged. The resulting sample was
subsequently washed three times with ultrapure water and freeze-dried.
Density functional theory calculations
All density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed in the Vienna Ab initio
simulation package (VASP)35. The generalized gradient approximation (GGA+U)36 with the
Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof exchange-correlation functional and a 520 eV cutoff for the plane-
wave basis set were employed37. The corrections of U-J are obtained from the Material
Project38. The projector-augmented plane wave (PAW) was used to describe the electron-ion
interactions39. The convergence threshold was set as 10-4 eV in energy and 0.01 eV/Å in force,
respectively. The empirical dispersions of Grimme (DFT-D3) were applied to account for the
long-range van der Waals interactions40. The k-point sampling of the Brillouin zone was
obtained using a 3 × 3 × 1 grid for the unit by Monkhorst-Pack scheme. A large vacuum slab
of 20 Å was inserted in the z direction for surface isolation to prevent interaction between two

neighboring surfaces.
Characterizations
The morphology and structure of these as-synthesized samples were characterized by a field-
emission gun scanning electron microscope (SEM, Hitachi S4800) and a transmission electron
microscopy (TEM, FEI Tecnai F20). X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were recorded by a X-
Pert3 powder diffractometer (PANalytical, Holland) with Cu-K radiation (λ=1.5416 Å). X-
α
ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements were performed on an AXIS Supra
(Kratos Analytical Ltd. England) with monochromatic 150 W Al-K radiation. The molar ratio
α
of elements was measured with ICP-OES (Thermo Fisher iCAP PRO).
Electrochemical measurements
All electrochemical tests were measured using a three-electrode system on CS310M
electrochemical workstation. Disperse 8mg of the sample in 500 μl of ethanol, 470μl of water
and 20μl of naphthol. Coat 150μl of the mixed solution on a 1cm×1cm carbon cloth as the
working electrode. HER performances were tested by using the pre-prepared working electrode,
Hg/HgO (1M KOH) electrode as reference electrode, and graphite rod as counter electrode.
The LSV curves were recorded with the scan rate of 2 mV s-1. And potentials were corrected
with 90% iR-compensation. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was conducted
from 100 kHz to 0.01 Hz. The electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) was estimated from
electrochemical double-layer capacitance (C ). And C values were determined with typical
dl dl
CV tests at various scan rates (5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 mV s-1) in the range of non-faradic region.
Data availability
The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author
upon reasonable request.
Code availability
The code for S1-MatAgent is provided at https://github.com/ScienceOne-AI/S1-MatAgent.
Acknowledgments

This work is financially supported by Strategic Priority Research Program of Chinese Academy
of Sciences (XDA0480301), Advanced Materials-National Science and Technology Major
Project (2025ZD0619502, 2025ZD0613501), National Natural Science Foundation of China,
NSFC (22403103), Sponsored by Shanghai Sailing Program(23YF1454900), and the Science
and Technology Commission of Shanghai Municipality (25CL2902100).
Ethics declarations
The authors declare no competing interests.
Author contributions
N.R. and J.S. designed the project. X.W. and C.L. completed the entire project code and
experiments. B.Z. performed data analysis. C.L. and X.W. completed the manuscript. J.S., N.R.,
L.L., J.L. and D.Z revised the manuscript. N.R., J.L. and D.Z supervised the project and
provided funding.
Competing interests
The authors declare no competing interests.
Additional information
Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to N.R., and J. S.
References
1 Zhao, Q., Stalin, S., Zhao, C.-Z. & Archer, L. A. Designing solid-state electrolytes for
safe, energy-dense batteries. Nat. Rev. Mater. 5, 229-252 (2020).
2 Meng, Y. S., Srinivasan, V. & Xu, K. Designing better electrolytes. Science 378,
eabq3750 (2022).
3 Xiao, J., Shi, F., Glossmann, T., Burnett, C. & Liu, Z. From laboratory innovations to
materials manufacturing for lithium-based batteries. Nat. Energy 8, 329-339 (2023).
4 Hisatomi, T., Yamada, T., Nishiyama, H., Takata, T. & Domen, K. Materials and
systems for large-scale photocatalytic water splitting. Nat. Rev. Mater. (2025).
5 Wan, R. et al. Earth-abundant electrocatalysts for acidic oxygen evolution. Nat. Catal.
7, 1288-1304 (2024).
6 Zhu, Z., Ng, D. W. H., Park, H. S. & McAlpine, M. C. 3D-printed multifunctional
materials enabled by artificial-intelligence-assisted fabrication technologies. Nat. Rev.
Mater. 6, 27-47 (2021).
7 Yao, Z. et al. Machine learning for a sustainable energy future. Nat. Rev. Mater. 8, 202-
215 (2023).

8 Moghadam, P. Z., Chung, Y. G. & Snurr, R. Q. Progress toward the computational
discovery of new metal–organic framework adsorbents for energy applications. Nat.
Energy 9, 121-133 (2024).
9 Xu, Y. et al. Catalog of topological phonon materials. Science 384, eadf8458 (2024).
10 Jain, A. et al. Commentary: The Materials Project: A materials genome approach to
accelerating materials innovation. APL Mater. 1 (2013).
11 Huang, B., von Rudorff, G. F. & von Lilienfeld, O. A. The central role of density
functional theory in the AI age. Science 381, 170-175 (2023).
12 Deng, T. et al. High-Throughput Strategies in the Discovery of Thermoelectric
Materials. Adv. Mater. 36, 2311278 (2024).
13 Xie, T. & Grossman, J. C. Crystal Graph Convolutional Neural Networks for an
Accurate and Interpretable Prediction of Material Properties. Phys. Rev. Lett. 120,
145301 (2018).
14 Ha, C. S. et al. Rapid inverse design of metamaterials based on prescribed mechanical
behavior through machine learning. Nat. Commun. 14, 5765 (2023).
15 Zheng, X., Zhang, X., Chen, T.-T. & Watanabe, I. Deep Learning in Mechanical
Metamaterials: From Prediction and Generation to Inverse Design. Adv. Mater. 35,
2302530 (2023).
16 Zeni, C. et al. A generative model for inorganic materials design. Nature 639, 624-632
(2025).
17 Weiss, T. et al. Guided diffusion for inverse molecular design. Nat. Comput. Sci. 3, 873-
882 (2023).
18 Yuan, W., Chen, G., Wang, Z. & You, F. Empowering Generalist Material Intelligence
with Large Language Models. Adv. Mater. 37, 2502771 (2025).
19 Song, Z., Lu, S., Ju, M., Zhou, Q. & Wang, J. Accurate prediction of synthesizability
and precursors of 3D crystal structures via large language models. Nat. Commun. 16,
6530 (2025).
20 Kang, Y. & Kim, J. ChatMOF: an artificial intelligence system for predicting and
generating metal-organic frameworks using large language models. Nat. Commun. 15,
4705 (2024).
21 Zhang, Y. et al. Large language models to accelerate organic chemistry synthesis. Nat.
Mach. Intell. 7, 1010-1022 (2025).
22 Fu, C.-L. et al. AI-Driven Defect Engineering for Advanced Thermoelectric Materials.
Adv. Mater. 37, 2505642 (2025).
23 Song, T. et al. A Multiagent-Driven Robotic AI Chemist Enabling Autonomous
Chemical Research On Demand. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 147, 12534-12545 (2025).
24 Robson, M. J., Xu, S., Wang, Z., Chen, Q. & Ciucci, F. Multi-Agent-Network-Based
Idea Generator for Zinc-Ion Battery Electrolyte Discovery: A Case Study on Zinc
Tetrafluoroborate Hydrate-Based Deep Eutectic Electrolytes. Adv. Mater. 37, 2502649
(2025).
25 Ghafarollahi, A. & Buehler, M. J. Automating alloy design and discovery with physics-
aware multimodal multiagent AI. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
122, e2414074122 (2025).
26 Wang, Q. et al. Unraveling the Complexity of Divalent Hydride Electrolytes in Solid-
State Batteries via a Data-Driven Framework with Large Language Model. Angew.
Chem. Int. Ed. 64, e202506573 (2025).
27 Jaffrelot Inizan, T. et al. System of Agentic AI for the Discovery of Metal-Organic
Frameworks. arXiv:2504.14110 (2025).
28 Li, X., Huang, Z., Quan, S., Peng, C. & Ma, X. SLM-MATRIX: a multi-agent trajectory
reasoning and verification framework for enhancing language models in materials data
extraction. npj Computational Materials 11, 241 (2025).

29 Leong, S. X. et al. Steering towards safe self-driving laboratories. Nat. Rev. Chem.
(2025).
30 Bazgir, A. & Zhang, Y. in AI for Accelerated Materials Design-ICLR 2025.
31 Zhou, L. et al. Toward Greater Autonomy in Materials Discovery Agents: Unifying
Planning, Physics, and Scientists. arXiv:2506.05616 (2025).
32 Chinese Academy of Sciences. ScienceOne-AI, https://huggingface.co/ScienceOne-AI
(2025).
33 Batatia, I., Kovacs, D. P., Simm, G., Ortner, C. & Csányi, G. MACE: Higher order
equivariant message passing neural networks for fast and accurate force fields.
Advances in neural information processing systems 35, 11423-11436 (2022).
34 Holland, J. H. Adaptation in natural and artificial systems: an introductory analysis with
applications to biology, control, and artificial intelligence. (MIT press, 1992).
35 Kresse, G. & Furthmüller, J. Efficient iterative schemes for ab initio total-energy
calculations using a plane-wave basis set. Phys. Rev. B 54, 11169 (1996).
36 Rohrbach, A., Hafner, J. & Kresse, G. Electronic correlation effects in transition-metal
sulfides. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 15, 979 (2003).
37 Perdew, J. P., Burke, K. & Ernzerhof, M. Generalized gradient approximation made
simple. Phys. Rev. Lett. 77, 3865 (1996).
38 Jain, A. et al. Commentary: The Materials Project: A materials genome approach to
accelerating materials innovation. APL Mater. 1 (2013).
39 Blöchl, P. E. Projector augmented-wave method. Phys. Rev. B 50, 17953 (1994).
40 Grimme, S. Semiempirical GGA‐type density functional constructed with a long‐range
dispersion correction. J. Comput. Chem. 27, 1787-1799 (2006).

