ORIGINALRESEARCH
published:12June2020
doi:10.3389/fenrg.2020.00073
Synthesis of the New High Entropy
Alloy and Its Application in Energy
Conversion and Storage
HetingZhou1* andJiangweiHe2
1DepartmentofCivilEngineeringandArchitecture,ZhejiangIndustryPolytechnicCollege,Shaoxing,China,2Departmentof
ResearchandDevelopment,ZhejiangRuntuCO.LTD.,Shaoxing,China
In order to explore the methods of energy saving and promoting energy regeneration,
this paper presents the synthesis and application of new high energy alloy materials
in energy conversion and storage. A new type of high entropy alloy material was
prepared by analyzing its high strength, tempering resistance and softening resistance.
The electrochemical properties of the new type of high entropy alloy were studied
according to its microstructure and as cast structure. The experimental results show
that compared with fesn2, the new high entropy alloy material has greater advantages
in capacity, electrochemical performance, capacity stability and magnification in the
process of cyclic charging, at low annealing temperature, the solid Co nanoparticles
are further transformed into hollow Co O nanospheres by the kirkentel effect on the
Editedby: 3 4
SuShiungLam, nanoscale. NC- Co O nanocomposites as zinc air battery cathodes exhibit excellent
3 4
UniversityofMalaysia
OERandORRproperties:lowoverpotential352mv,highinitialreductionpotential0.91v
Terengganu,Malaysia
andhalfwavepotential0.87v,highopencircuitvoltage1.44v,capacitance387.2mah/g,
Reviewedby:
RockKeeyLiew, andexcellentcyclestability.Nicobimetallicphosphidenanotubesderivedfromthehigh
UniversitiMalaysia entropyalloy-74areefficientelectrocatalystsforwaterdecomposition.
Terengganu,Malaysia
HuanPang, Keywords:highentropyalloy,materials,energyconversion,storage,electrochemicalperformance,fuelcellFeSn2
YangzhouUniversity,China
*Correspondence:
INTRODUCTION
HetingZhou
contrist@163.com
Withtherapidgrowthofpopulationandeconomy,thehugeglobalenergyconsumptionhasledto
Specialtysection: theunsustainabledevelopmentoffossilfuels,resultinginseriousenvironmentalproblemsdueto
Thisarticlewassubmittedto theexcessivedevelopmentanduseoffossilfuels.Withthedualcrisisofenergyandenvironment,it
ElectrochemicalEnergyConversion ismoreandmoreurgenttodeveloprenewableenergytoreduce,recycleandevenreplacetheuseof
andStorage,
fossilfuels(Yurchenkoetal.,2016).Oneofthekeytechnologiesofrenewableenergyrevolutionis
asectionofthejournal
effectiveenergyconversionandenergystorage.Energyconversionandstorageefficiencydependon
FrontiersinEnergyResearch
electrochemicalreactions(Yietal.,2017),asthemosttypicalexamplesarehydrogenproductionby
Received:13December2019
watersplitting,powergenerationbyredoxreactionoffuelcells,catalyticreductionofCO ,andion
2
Accepted:14April2020
recyclingofbatteriesandsupercapacitorsforenergystorage.Electrodematerialslargelydetermine
Published:12June2020
the efficiency of an electrochemical energy storage and conversion device (Michael et al., 2017).
Citation:
Effective surface area, optimized pore size distribution and crystallinity are the most important
ZhouHandHeJ(2020)Synthesisof
factors affecting electrode materials. Therefore, considering the practical application, it is very
theNewHighEntropyAlloyandIts
importanttodevelopnewelectrodematerialswithhighperformance(Wangetal.,2016).
ApplicationinEnergyConversionand
Storage.Front.EnergyRes.8:73. The development of material science has always been accompanied by the development of
doi:10.3389/fenrg.2020.00073 humancivilization,inwhichmetalmaterialsplayadecisiveroleinhumanhistoryandcivilization.
FrontiersinEnergyResearch|www.frontiersin.org 1 June2020|Volume8|Article73

ZhouandHe NewHighEntropyAlloy
So far, more than 30 kinds of practical alloy systems have alloyareanalyzedandthecapacityofcharginganddischargingis
been applied to all aspects of human life, for example, steel compared.Thespecificresearchrouteisasfollows:
materials for the pillar of the national economy, aluminum
(1) Thepropertiesofhighentropyalloyareanalyzed,including
alloy next to steel, magnesium alloy with the lightest weight
wear resistance, hardness, corrosion resistance, tempering
among practical metals, etc. (Wang et al., 2016; Mike et al.,
resistanceandsofteningresistance.
2017).Inthe1970’s,thedevelopmentandapplicationofbinary
(2) The preparation methods of new high entropy alloy
intermetallic compounds such as Ti Al and amorphous alloys
materials are introduced, and the advantages and
(metallicglass)havenotbrokenawayfromthetraditionaldesign
disadvantagesareanalyzed.
concept of alloy materials, that is, they are all based on one
(3) The microstructure of the new high entropy alloy
(contentgenerallymorethan50%)ortwometalelements,onthe
wassimplified.
basisofwhichotherelementsarepurposefullyaddedtoimprove
(4) The application research of new high entropy alloy
themetalperformance(JiaandYang,2016).Nowadays,withthe
materialincludestheelectrochemicalabsorptionandrelease
developmentofaviation,aerospace,electronics,communication
properties of new high entropy alloy material and its
andothertechnologiesaswellasmachinery,chemicalindustry,
applicationinpractice.
energy and other industries, more and more requirements are
(5) Conclusionandfocusoffutureresearch.
put forward for the performance of materials. However, the
traditional concept of synthesis has been unable to support
today’sstrongdemand.Traditionalsinglematerialscannolonger MATERIALS AND METHODS
meet the use requirements, so human beings have stepped into
The High Entropy Alloy Performance
a new era of synthetic materials, in which metal materials have
developedfromtheoriginalpuremetaltosyntheticmetal(Chao HighWearResistanceoftheHighEntropyAlloy
etal.,2016).Manyachievementshavebeenmadeintheresearch As we known, the wear resistance of materials is related to
ofsyntheticmetals.In1995,TaiwanscholarYeJunweicreatively their hardness. The harder the materials are, the higher the
put forward a new concept of alloy design of the high entry wear resistance (Ye et al., 2016; Xu et al., 2018). So it is not
alloy, which completely broke the traditional concept of alloy difficult to find that the high entropy alloy also has high wear
design. The idea has laid a foundation for the development of resistance.Thechangeofalloyelementshasagreatinfluenceon
synthetic metals, but the theory has not been put into practice. thewearresistanceofthehighentrancealloy.Throughthestudy
Inthepast20years,manyscholarsandteamshaveparticipated of the adhesion wear behavior of Al x CoC x CuFeNi, it is found
intheresearchofthehighentryalloyandaccumulatedalotof thatwiththeincreaseofAlcontent,thenumberofBCCphase
researchresults.Themosttypicaloneishighentropyalloy.The increases.BCCphasecanimprovethehardnessandreducethe
originalhighentropyalloyhasbeenprovedtobeunsuitablefor wearcoefficientofthealloy,whilethewearchangestooxidation
reversiblelithiumbatterystorage,butthesubsequentworksolved wear (Su et al., 2016). In the process of oxidation wear, oxide
this problem and made the high entropy alloy as an effective film will be formed on the surface, which will help to improve
energy storage material (Zhi et al., 2017). In addition to direct the wear resistance of the alloy. The research shows that the
use, the high entropy alloy is also used as a support material wearresistanceofthealloyissignificantlyimprovedbyreplacing
to cover active nano materials for energy conversion reaction Cu element in AlCoCrFeCuNi by Mo element. In addition,
or as a precursor material to obtain a variety of other high withtheincreaseofFecontent,thewearresistanceofthealloy
entropy alloy materials through different processing methods AlCoCrFeMo0.5Ni will be reduced, which is also related to the
(Wuetal.,2016).Forexample,Aijazetal.usedZIF8ascarbon decreaseofitshardness.Itcanbeseenfromtheabovethatthe
andnitrogensourcefortemplate,furfurylalcoholandNH OH wear resistance of the high entry alloy is the best by properly
4
to prepare the high entropy alloy porous carbon material for adjustingthetypeandcontentofelements(Stepanovetal.,2017).
CO adsorption and oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Wang
2
et al. Mixed ZIF-8 nanoparticles with polyacrylonitrile (PAN) HighStrengthandHardnessoftheHighEntropyAlloy
solution, prepared ZIF-8 / PAN fiber by electrospinning, and The special organizational structure of the high entry
◦
then calcined at 500 C under nitrogen protection to obtain alloy determines its unique performance. Similar to other
the high entropy alloy porous carbon material. It is reviewed solid solution metals, the high entrance alloy has a strong
the research results of the high energy alloy in recent years, strengtheningeffectforsolidsolution.Whenthealloysolidifies
including its organizational structure and performance, as well andcrystallizes,thesolidsolutionatomswillblockthemovement
as its application in super capacitors and fuel cells. As a new ofdislocations,sothesolidphasestrengthandhardnessarevery
typeofsustainableenergyconversionandstoragetechnology,it high.Thereisnograinboundaryintheamorphousphaseofthe
has excellent efficiency, high energy density and environmental alloy,whichmakestheslipmovementmoredifficult,sothesolid
friendliness. However, the research on the synthesis of high phase strength is higher. Similarly, the middle nano phase and
entropyalloyisnotthorough,andtherearemanydefectsinits thesecondphaseofthehigh-intensityalloycanfurtherenhance
performanceanalysis. the solid phase strength. In addition, due to the difference of
Based on the above problems, this paper presents the atomicsizeamongtheconstituentelements,thelatticedistortion
synthesisofnewhighentropyalloyanditsapplicationinenergy will hinder the dislocation movement and increase the solid
conversion and energy storage. The properties of high entropy strength.Thehardnesscharacteristicsofas-caststructureofthe
FrontiersinEnergyResearch|www.frontiersin.org 2 June2020|Volume8|Article73

ZhouandHe NewHighEntropyAlloy
high entrance alloy in various systems are shown in Table1, upto1,100 ◦ C.Thehighentrancealloyhasexcellentproperties,
the hardness of the as-cast structure of the high entrance alloy comparedtotraditionalalloy.
is 600–900 hv, which is no less than that of carbon steel and
alloycarbonsteelaftercompletequenchingandhardening.The
Preparation Method of the New High
hardness of the alloy can be further adjusted by changing the
contentofalloyingelements(Shengetal.,2018). Entropy Alloy Material
Thefirstmethodtopreparethenewhighentrancealloymaterial
isvacuumarcfurnacecasting,whichisalsothemosttraditional
ExcellentCorrosionResistanceoftheHighEntropy
and applied method. Subsequently, the multi-element high-
Alloy
function alloy coating was successfully prepared by magnetron
The high entropy alloy has a simple phase structure, may also sputtering,forexample,anewtypeofhighentropyalloymaterial,
containamorphous,nanocrystallineandlowfreeenthalpy,which alfeticrzncu, was successfully prepared by mechanical alloying.
determinesitsstrongcorrosionresistance(Zhangetal.,2018a). Li Xiaobing et al. tried to prepare the new high entrance alloy
Forthehigh-corrosion-resistantalloycontainingTi,Cr,Ni,and material coating by thermal spraying. Yao Chenzhong et al.
Cu,thecorrosionresistanceofthecorrosion-resistantelements successfullypreparedtheamorphousthenewhighentrancealloy
canbefullyexerted,whichcanensurethatthehigh-corrosion- materialfe 13.8 co 28.7 ni 4.0 mn 22.1 bi 14.9 tm 16.5 film by
resistantalloywillnotbecorrodedinstrongacidenvironment. potentiostatic electrochemical deposition. The new high-speed
Oxide film can not only improve wear resistance but also alloy material can be made of block material, coating material
corrosionresistance.Theexistenceofsomeelementsinthealloy andfilmmaterialbymeltingcasting,forging,powdermetallurgy,
isconducivetotheformationofoxidefilm,butalsotoimprove spraying method and coating method. With the increase and
corrosion resistance. Nano and amorphous phases in the alloy improvementofthepreparationprocessofthenewhigh-speed
can also effectively improve the corrosion resistance between alloymaterial,itsapplicationfieldwillbeexpandedgreatly.
dendrites (Shi et al., 2016). If there is segregation in the fiber
structure of the alloy, it may aggravate the corrosion tendency
PreparationofHighEntropyAlloyPowder
ofthealloy.Thecorrosionresistanceofthehighentrancealloyas
Thepreparationmethodofhighentropyalloypowderismainly
caststructureofvarioussystemsisshowninTable1.
mechanical alloying, which is easy to obtain nanocrystalline or
amorphous particles with uniform structure and component
ExcellentTemperingandSofteningResistanceofthe distribution.VaralakshofMadrasInstituteoftechnologyinIndia
HighEntropyAlloy preparedcunicoznalti,alfeticrzncusystemhighentropyalloyby
The high-temperature tempering can not only change its this method, and studied its structure and properties. Weiting
structureandatomicsize,butalsoprecipitatemorenanoparticles et al. prepared alfecrconi high entropy alloy by this method.
andamorphousphases,whichmakesthehigh-temperaturealloy Figure1 shows the classification of preparation methods for
still have high or even higher hardness. Therefore, the high differentformsofsamples.
entrance alloy does not soften after tempering, but has higher
hardness(Rizzardietal.,2018).Forexample,theabovealloyis PreparationofHighEntropyAlloyMatrixComposite
◦
annealed at high temperature of 1,000 C, holding time is 12h, Thepreparationofmetalhighentropyalloycanbedividedinto
andthencooledtoroomtemperatureinfurnace.Thehardness theabovefivecategories,andthecommonpreparationmethods
ofthealloyisbasicallyunchanged,sometimesevenprecipitation ofhighentropyalloymatrixcompositematerialsaremainlyself
hardeningoccurs.Incontrast,carbonsteelandhigh-temperature propagating high temperature synthesis (SHS). Li Bangsheng’s
◦
andhigh-speedsteel(onlyupto550 C)cannotdothis,butalso research group is devoted to the research of high entropy alloy
perform better than other non-ferrous alloys. In addition, the matrix composite materials, and Wang Yanping, his doctoral
softmagneticpropertiesandhighresistivityarealsosignificant student in the literature, uses the “SHS + melting casting”
characteristicsofthehighentrancealloy.Thehighentropyalloy method to prepare alcrfecon ICu - 10%TiC, CrFeCoNiCuTi -
containing Al and CR also has excellent oxidation resistance 10%TiChighentropyalloymatrixcomposites.
TABLE1|Listofhardnessandcorrosionresistanceofhighentropyalloy(×indicatesnocorrosion).
Highentropyalloys CuTiVFe CuTiVFe AlTiVFe AlTiVFe MoTiVFe AlTiVFe MoTiVFeNi
NiZrCo NiZrCo+3%B NiZrCo NiZrCo+3%B NiZrCo NiZrCoCr ZrCoCrPd
Hardness As-cast 620 660 780 770 780 770 820
Annealingat1,000◦Cfor 610 680 790 780 780 880 810
12h,furnacecooling
Corrosionresistance HCL(1mol/L) × × × × × × ×
H2SO4(1mol/L) × × × × × × ×
HNO3(1mol/L) × × × × × × ×
FrontiersinEnergyResearch|www.frontiersin.org 3 June2020|Volume8|Article73

ZhouandHe NewHighEntropyAlloy
FIGURE1|Researchandpreparationmethodsofdifferentformsofsamples.
Microstructure Characteristics of the New
High Entropy Alloy Material
SimplifiedMicrophaseStructure
According to the classical Gibbs phase ratio, the number of
equilibrium phases in the alloy system of various elements,
and the number of phases formed during non-equilibrium
solidification. According to the characteristics of traditional
alloys, it is believed that many kinds of main element alloys
willproducemanykindsofintermetalliccompounds,whichwill
deteriorate the mechanical properties of alloys. However, it is
found that the new high-density alloy material microstructure
has a simple BCC or FCC phase or amorphous state, which is
not inclined to form brittle intermetallic compounds, and the
numberofphasesobtainedisfarlessthan,whichphenomenon
canbewell-explainedaccordingtoGibbsfreeenergyequation
1G =1H −T1S (1)
mix mix mix
In the formula, the mixing entropy and the mixing enthalpy
(1H ) are in a competitive position, and the mixing entropy
mix
playsaleadingroleinthehightemperaturestage.Therefore,the
largemixingentropyofthenewhigh-temperaturealloymaterial
FIGURE2|As-caststructureofCuCoNiCrAlFehighentropyalloynew
willexpandthedissolutionrangeoftheend-to-endsolidsolution
material.(A)NeardisorderedBCCphasestructurewithawidthof70nm.
to a certain extent, thus forming a simple multicomponent (B)OrderedBCCphasestructurewithawidthof100nm.(C)Thestructureof
miscible phase, which is particularly obvious in the high- nanoprecipitateandFCCwithsizeof7–50nm.(D)NeardisorderBCCphase
temperaturestage(Zhangetal.,2018b). structure.
NanocrystallizationandAmorphization
Under the action of high mixed entropy, some components of the formation of nanophases (Gao et al., 2016). For rapid
the new high entropy alloy material will precipitate nanophase solidification or vacuum coating, the lattice distortion of the
structures or even amorphous structures in the as-cast state new high entropy alloy material can show the tendency of
(Liu et al., 2017). The main reason for the tendency of alloy nanocrystallizationandevenamorphizationduetothedifference
nanocrystallization is related to the kinetic theory, because in atom size. Figure2 is the as-cast structure of CuCoNiCrA
when the new high entropy alloy material melts, the contained lFethe high entropy alloy material, where the width of the a
elementsaredisorderlyarrangedintoadisorderedliquid.After region is about 70nm, which belongs to the nearly disordered
solidification,duetothediffusionandredistributionofmultiple BCCphasestructure;thewidthofthebregionisabout100nm,
elements, the Nucleation and growth delay are conducive to whichbelongstotheorderedBCCphasestructure;thecregion
FrontiersinEnergyResearch|www.frontiersin.org 4 June2020|Volume8|Article73

ZhouandHe NewHighEntropyAlloy
is a nano precipitate The size is about 7–50nm, which is close when the voltage is 0.3, the discharge capacity is about 760
to the FCC phase structure; the d region is a nano-precipitate, mAh/g-1,whenthevoltageis1.2,thechargecapacityisabout310
about 3nm, which also belongs to the nearly disordered BCC mAh/g-1,anditscapacitystartstobehigherthanthedischarge.
phasestructure. Inthecaseofthesecondchargeanddischarge,whenthevoltage
is1.2,thecapacityofchargingandnon-chargingisthesame,and
thenthecapacityofchargingishigherthanthatofnon-charging
APPLICATION RESEARCH OF THE NEW
mode;inthecaseofthethirdchargeanddischarge,thesituation
HIGH ENTROPY ALLOY MATERIAL
is the same as that in figure (a) and figure (b).In addition, the
formation of surface oxides will also lead to the formation of
The electrochemical performance of the new high energy alloy
Li O and irreversible capacity. After the first cycle, the second
materialanditsapplicationinsupercapacitorandfuelcellwere 2
chargedischargeisalmostthesameasthethirdchargedischarge,
studied, and its application in energy conversion and storage
indicating the reversible charge discharge reaction. Compared
wasverified.
with FeSn material, the new high entry alloy material shows
2
obvioushighcapacity.
Electrochemical Absorption and Release
Figure5showsthecomparisonofthecyclestabilityandrate
Performance of the New High Entropy
performancebetweenthenewhighentrancealloymaterialand
Alloy Material FeSn material.
2
InFigures3,4,itisshownthatthefirstthreechargeanddischarge Figure5Acomparesthecyclicperformanceofthenewhigh
conditions of the new high entropy alloy material and FeSn 2 entrance alloy material and FeSn 2 material at a current density
materialatacurrentdensityof50mAg −1. of150mAhg −1.Obviously,comparedwithFeSn ,thenewhigh
2
ItcanbeseenfromtheanalysisofFigure3andFigure3that entry alloy material shows improved cycle stability. After 25
under different capacities and voltages, the new high entropy cycles,thenewhighentrancealloymaterialmaintainsacharging
alloyreflectsdifferentsituationsthroughthreetimesofcharging capacity of 500 mAhg −1, while the FeSn material sample only
2
and discharging. In the case of the first charge and discharge, hasacapacityof150mAhg −1 afterthesamenumberofcycles.
FIGURE3|Highentropyalloynewmaterial.(A)Firstchargeanddischarge.(B)Secondchargeanddischarge.(C)Thirdchargeanddischarge.
FrontiersinEnergyResearch|www.frontiersin.org 5 June2020|Volume8|Article73

ZhouandHe NewHighEntropyAlloy
FIGURE4|ThefirstthreechargesanddischargesofthenewhighentropyalloymaterialandFeSn2materialatthecurrentdensityof50mAg−1.(A)Firstchargeand
discharge.(B)Secondchargeanddischarge.(C)Thirdchargeanddischarge.
The enhanced cycling performance is attributed to the slow andpreventthefurtherdecompositionoftheelectrolyte,which
down effect of the high entrance alloy on the volume change isconducivetothestabilityandreversiblecycleofthenewhigh
and the limitation of the agglomeration of cosn nanocrystals. entropy alloy material. However, after increasing the number
2
Figure5Bcomparesthemagnificationpropertiesofthenewhigh ofcyclesforFeSn materials,R andR increasedsignificantly.
2 f ct
entropy alloy material and FeSn material. The electrodes were In addition, the R of FeSn material samples has increased
2 e 2
chargedatdifferentcurrentdensitiesanddischargedatacurrent significantly, which is speculated to be caused by the shedding
density of 50 mAg
−1.
Obviously, the new high entrance alloy ofactivematerials.Incontrast,thechangeinReofthenewhigh
material shows better rate performance than FeSn material. It entropyalloymaterialissmall,whichindicatesthatthepresence
2
is considered that the improvement of the rate performance is ofthehighentropyalloysuppressesthevolumeexpansionduring
mainlyduetothefollowingfactors:firstly,thehighentropyalloy chargeanddischarge,therebyreducingthesheddingoftheactive
can actastheconductive network of thematerialnanocrystals; material. The relatively small changes in R and R of the new
f ct
secondly, the nanocrystals with small size and good dispersion highentropyalloymaterialindicatethattheintroductionofthe
are conducive to the rapid transport of lithium ions; thirdly, highentropyalloybuffers,limits,anddispersesFeSn materials
2
the materials located between the high entropy alloy in layers to better maintain electrode integrity during cycling. It is also
are conducive to the wetting of the electrolyte. Therefore, the explainswhythenewhighentropyalloymaterialhasbettercycle
high entrance alloy sheet is more conducive to the internal ion stabilityandrateperformance.
transportbetweentheelectrolyteinterfaces.
Figure6 shows the Nyquist of the new high entrance alloy
Application of the New High Entropy Alloy
material and FeSn after 5 and 25 cycles. For the new high
2
Material in Super Capacitor
entrance alloy material, R remained almost unchanged after
SEI
5 and 25 cycles, indicating that the structure of SEI membrane Supercapacitor or electric double-layer capacitor (EDLC) is
remainedstableafterthefirstcycle.ThestabilityofSEIfilmcan a kind of electrochemical device with huge capacitance and
preventtheactivematerialsfrombeingexposedintheelectrolyte high capacity, which are widely used in devices requiring fast
FrontiersinEnergyResearch|www.frontiersin.org 6 June2020|Volume8|Article73

ZhouandHe NewHighEntropyAlloy
FIGURE6|NyquistconditionsofnewhighentropyalloyandFeSn2material
samplesafter5and25cycles.(A)Highentropyalloynewmaterial.(B)FeSn2
material.
FIGURE5|Comparisonofcyclicstabilityandmultiplicativeproperties
betweenthenewhighentropyalloymaterialandFeSn2materialsamples.
(A)Cyclicstability.(B)Ratioofperformance.
tofurtherimprovethecapacity,newelectrodematerialsneedto
have good conductivity, high surface area and adjustable pore
charge/dischargecycles.Supercapacitorsdonotuseconventional size. Because of the compliance with these standards, the new
solid-statemediaofordinarycapacitors.Thesedevicescanstore high entry alloy material has become a potential material for
electricenergyintheelectrochemicaldoublelayer(EDL)formed manufacturingsupercapacitors.
byelectrolyteionsontheelectrodesurface,ortheelectrochemical The new high entrance alloy material can also be used
redoxreactioninthesurfaceareaofelectrodematerials.Thekey as an effective active material and a composite substrate
point of super capacitor is to improve energy density. In order for supercapacitors. In order to further study the practical
FrontiersinEnergyResearch|www.frontiersin.org 7 June2020|Volume8|Article73

ZhouandHe NewHighEntropyAlloy
materialsforsupercapacitors.A3DcrosslinkedPANI/nitrogen
depositedporouscarbonfiber(3DCPPC)waspreparedbyin-situ
polymerization of aniline with zif-8 derived nitrogen deposited
porous carbon fiber. Figure7 shows the cyclic voltammetry of
porouscarbondepositedbynitrogenatapotentialof−0.2∼0.8V
in 1m sulfuric acid, indicating that the rapid ion diffusion
and electron transfer are attributed to low internal resistance
and ideal capacitive behavior. The constant current charge and
dischargetestwithcurrentintensityof1A/gshowsthat3D-CPC
(755 F/g) has higher specific capacitance than 3D crosslinked
PANI (504 F/g) and nitrogen deposited porous carbon (325
F/g). As the current intensity increases from 1 to 20 A/g, the
specific capacitance of 3D-CPC only decreases from 755 to
618 F/g, indicating that the material has excellent transmission
performance. In addition, 91.2 % of the capacitance remains
after 1,000 cycles at a high current intensity (20 A/g), which
proves that the 3D-CPC material has good cycle stability. For
FIGURE7|Thecurrentstatediagramofnitrogen-depositedporouscarbonat
apotentialof−0.1–0.9vin1Msulfuricacid. supercapacitors,theexcellentelectrochemicalpropertiesof3D-
CPCmaterialsaremainlyattributedtotwoaspects:first,nitrogen
deposition porous carbon can provide more active sites for the
rapidtransferofionsandelectrons;second,thehighstructural
application performance of the material, especially the flexible stabilityof3Dcross-linkedPANIfibercanpreventtheexpansion
energystorageperformance,thematerialwasusedintheflexible andcontractionofelectrodematerials.
solid-state hybrid battery (SSHC) equipment. It is found that In order to obtain this hybrid array, CNTFswere first
the maximum volume energy density of SSHC is 5.1 mW immersed in a mixed solution containing
Zn2+
and
Co2+
, and
h/cm3 (210Wh/kg),whichismuchhigherthanothermaterials theproductwasheatedat350 ◦ Cundertheprotectionofinert
reportedatpresent. gastoobtainCNTFs@ZnCo O nanowirearray(NA).
2 4
As a typical 2D single-layer inorganic carbon material, Subsequently, Zn Co O NA provides
Zn2+
and
Co2+
ions
2 4
the high-density alloy is widely used as electrode material. andactsasaframeworktogrowbimetallicZn/Co-ZIF(CNTFs
The new high-density alloy material can greatly improve its @ Zn Co O@Zn/Co-ZIF) in situ. NTFs @ Zn Co O @ Zn/Co-
2 4 2 4
◦
rate performance and cycle stability. The hybrid electrode ZIF HA was heated in air at 350 C to convert it into CNTFs
structure assembled by the high-density alloy nano sheet and @ Zn Co O @ Zn Co O ha, and then CNTFs @ Zn Co O
2 4 2 4 2 4
inorganic nano materials has the following advantages: (1) it @ Zn co-s HA was obtained by secondary reaction with
can effectivelyimprove theconnectivitybetween theindividual thioacetamide at 70 ◦ C. CNTFs @ Zn Co O @ Zn-Co-S is
2 4
electroactivespecies,shortenthetransmissionpathbetweenthe used as cathode and CNTFs @ H-Co O @ CNC HA as anode
3 4
ion and the electrolyte; (2) the mixing of the two materials to assemble FACS equipment. The specific capacitance of the
can retain the advantages between the two, play a synergistic device is 117.18 mF/cm2 at the current 10 mA/cm2 and 67.5
role, and ultimately improve the electrochemical performance mF/cm2 asthecurrentintensityis10mA/cm2.Acompleteself
of the whole system. The active site rich NIS nanorods(R- chargingpowersupplysystemincludesaflexiblefibercoaxially
NiS) and rGOcomposites (R-NiS/rGO) were prepared by asymmetric supercapacitor (FACSS) and a flexible triboelectric
in situ vulcanization with Ni-MOF-74/rGO as parent. The Nanogenerator (FTENGs), which can collect and store energy
nanostructured NIS nanorods (200 × 800nm) prepared by the for flexible electronic devices at the same time. The excellent
high-density alloy are uniformly wrapped on the rGO, which electrochemical performance of the FACS device also shows in
provides an ideal electronic conductivity for the rapid energy its high regional energy density, which is 32.01 µW·h/ cm2
storage. The layered porous structure of the nanocomposite when the regional power density is 6,698.42 µW/ cm2. In
promotes the rapid entry of liquid electrolyte into the active addition,whenthepowerdensityincreasedto7,000µW/cm2,
material. In addition, experiments and theoretical calculations the energy density of the device remained at 12.38 µW h/
show that the NIS nanorods in the mixed electrode exhibit cm2, indicating that CNTFs@ZnCo O@Zn-Co-S HA material
2 4
activeredoxreactions.R-NiS/rGOcompositeshowshighspecific had a strong synergistic effect. The excellent electrochemical
capacity, excellent ratio performance and good cycle stability. performance of self-assembled FACS is mainly attributed to its
In2MKOHelectrolyte,whenthecurrentofR-NiS/rGOmixed unique layered and porous structure, which can provide more
electrode increases from 1 to 50A/g, the capacitance only electronicactivesitesandsmartiondiffusionpath.
decreases from 744 to 600 C/g. After 20,000 cycles, the initial Based on the above analysis, it is found that the new high
capacitanceisstillhigherthan89%,showingexcellentstability. entropyalloymaterialshowsexcellentelectrochemicalproperties
Due to the advantages of simple preparation, low cost, intheapplicationofsupercapacitor.Themainadvantagesofthe
high chemical stability and good conductivity, the nanofibers materialareasfollows:(1)highstructuralstabilitypreventsthe
in the high-density alloy are also widely used as electrode expansionandcontractionoftheelectrode;(2)theporestructure
FrontiersinEnergyResearch|www.frontiersin.org 8 June2020|Volume8|Article73

ZhouandHe NewHighEntropyAlloy
provides a large number of electroactive sites and electrolyte materialthroughcarbonization.Thepreparationdiagramofthe
transfer channels, and enhances the ion transport in the whole new high entropy alloy material is shown in Figure9. These
structure;(3)thehighlycrosslinkedstructureofthehigh-density metalnanoparticlescanprovideelectrocatalyticsites,moreover,
alloy provides an efficient channel for electron transfer and which can greatly improve the conductivity and stability of the
ion diffusion in the charge discharge process. Although great whole new high entropy alloy material. For example, carbon-
progresshasbeenmadeinthisfield,mostoftheresearchesare co nanocomposites were obtained by carbonizing Zn and the
mainly on ZIF derived nanomaterials. In the future, it should new high entropy alloy material and used as dual functional
developavarietyofotherpreparationandapplicationofthehigh electrocatalysts for ORR and OER. Zif-67 was grown on the
entropyalloyderivednanomaterials. surfaceofzif-8asatemplatetoformatypicalcore-shellstructure,
whichwasthentransformedintoadoubleshellnanocagewith
Co-N deposited graphite carbon as the shell and N deposited
Application of the New High Entropy Alloy
porous carbon as the inner shell by carbonization and acid
Material in Fuel Cell etching. Due to the large active surface area and high diffusion
Inthepastfewyears,fuelcellasanewtypeofsustainableenergy kinetics of the reactants, this novel structure exhibits unique
conversion technology has been widely concerned because of catalytic activity and durability in terms of ORR and OER.
its excellent efficiency, high energy density and environmental First-principles theoretical calculations indicate that the high
friendliness. The performance of fuel cell mainly depends on catalytic activity of both reactions is due to the strong and
severalimportantelectrocatalyticreactions,includingORR,HER favorableadsorptionoftherate-dependentintermediateproduct
and OER. In general, the formation of H-H and O=O bonds (OOH ∗ ) on the Co lattice with non-coordinated hollow sites
in water is very slow or requires very high electrochemical andhighdensityCatoms.Inaddition,theactiveCsitesinthe
potential.Inordertoovercometheselimitations,itisnecessary para-position of the deposited graphite-type and pyridine-type
to use electrocatalyst to reduce the superpotential driving nitrogenatomsalsoshowedhigheractivityintheORRandOER
water oxidation and proton reduction. In recent years, the reactions,respectively.
new high entropy alloy material based electrode material The results show that metal oxides, metal phosphates and
has been proved to be a promising electrocatalytic water metal sulfides can be used to enhance the electro catalytic
crackingmaterial. activity of the new high entrance alloy material. It is reported
Inordertofurtherenhancetheelectrocatalyticperformance that a high efficient bifunctional oxygen catalyst was prepared
ofthenewhighentropyalloymaterialbasedcatalyst,variousnew by Co based the high entrance alloy, and the hollow Co O
3 4
chainsandnodesaredesignedtooptimizethecatalyticactivity nanosphereswerecoatedonthecarbonfelt.Firstly,COthehigh
of the new high entropy alloy material. These methods mainly entropy alloy grows on the carbon felt, and then pyrolyses to
include: (1) embedding π - conjugated organic ligands into form Co nanoparticles fixed on the carbon nano sheet. At low
the framework to prolong the recombination time of electron annealing temperature, the solid Co nanoparticles are further
hole;(2)combiningmolecularcatalyst,semiconductorquantum transformed into hollow Co O nanospheres by the kirkentel
3 4
dots, metal nanoparticles and metal ions with the new high effect on the nanoscale. NC- Co O nanocomposites as zinc
3 4
entropy alloy material; (3) constructing ultra-thin 2D the high airbatterycathodesexhibitexcellentOERandORRproperties:
entropyalloynanofilms.Thelastmethodhasseveraladvantages, lowoverpotential352mv,highinitialreductionpotential0.91v
includingfastmasstransfer,superiorelectrontransferandhigh and half wave potential 0.87v, high open circuit voltage 1.44v,
percentage between the exposed catalytic active surface and capacitance 387.2 mah/g and excellent cycle stability. Nico
the unsaturated metal site, which ensure high catalytic activity bimetallic phosphide nanotubes derived from the high entropy
and unique surface atomic structure and bonding arrangement alloy-74 are efficient electrocatalysts for water decomposition.
which are easy to identify and adjust. Through the preparation The over potential of HER and OER are 129 and 245mV,
of2Dultra-thinnicothehighentryalloyframework,itsstructure respectively, when the current density is 10 mA/cm2. They
is shown in Figure8. The performance of electrocatalytic OER can also be used as cathode and anode catalysts for alkaline
with GC and Cu as working electrodes was studied. When aqueous solution cracking. The voltage of the electrolyzer is
GC is used as electrode, the corresponding over-voltage is 1.59v at the current density of 10 mA/cm2. The hollow CoS
2
250mV when the current density is 110 mA/cm2. When Cu nanotube array derived from CO the high-intensity alloy was
is used as electrode, the over-voltage is only 189mV when the used as an efficient dual-function electrocatalyst for all water
currentdensityis10mA/cm2.Inaddition,in1MKOHsolution, cracking. Hollow CoS nanoarrays have hierarchical pores,
2
the NiCothe high entry alloy framework showed incredible large surface area and abundant surface active sites. Compared
long-termstability(200h),farhigherthanthecommercialRuO with Co O electrode, CoS shows more excellent OER and
2 3 4 2
electrocatalyst (∼11h). The ultra-high OER electrocatalytic HER electrocatalytic properties. When the current density of
activity of the NiCothe high entropy alloy framework total water cracking in alkaline solution is 10 mA/cm2, the
is mainly attributed to the synergistic effect between the battery voltage is 1.67v, and the current of electrode can
unsaturatedmetalsitesandtheporousultra-thinNiCothehigh be stable for 20h under bending state. The above research
entropyalloy. shows that the new high energy alloy material provides a new
Under the appropriate temperature, the high entropy alloy functionalmaterialforthedevelopmentandefficientutilization
can be directly converted into the new high entropy alloy offuelcells.
FrontiersinEnergyResearch|www.frontiersin.org 9 June2020|Volume8|Article73

ZhouandHe NewHighEntropyAlloy
FIGURE8|CrystallinestructureofNiCohighentropyalloyframe.Note:darkgray,C;Lightgray,H;Red,O;Purple,Co;Green,Ni.
FIGURE9|Schematicdiagramofpreparationofnewhighentropyalloymaterials.
CONCLUSIONS AND PROSPECT in the field of electrochemical energy storage and conversion
is an exciting interdisciplinary research field. In this article
Based on the urgent need for high-performance energy storage it is summarized the application of the new high entropy
and conversion systems, the development of new electrode alloy material in super capacitors and fuel cells (ORR,
materials is crucial (Zhou et al., 2018). The new high entropy HER, and OER). As an electrode material, the new high
alloy material has the characteristics of large surface area, entropy alloy material exhibits high capacitance, excellent rate
high porosity, adjustable pore size and controllable structure, performance, and good cycle stability. Although the new high
which advantages can well meet the requirements of high- entropy alloy material has carried out a lot of work in
performance electrode materials. The successful preparation of energy storage and conversion, it still faces many challenges,
the new high-performance alloy material and its application suchas:
FrontiersinEnergyResearch|www.frontiersin.org 10 June2020|Volume8|Article73

ZhouandHe NewHighEntropyAlloy
(1) Atpresent,thepreparationcostofthenewhighentropyalloy ETHICS STATEMENT
material is relatively expensive. In practical application, it
isnecessarytoreducethepreparationcostofthenewhigh The study was approved by Zhejiang Industry Polytechnic
entropyalloymaterial; College and Zhejiang Runtu CO. LTD. All authors provided
(2) the precursor types of the new high entropy alloy material writteninformedconsent.
are few, and the obtained new high entropy alloy material
is mainly metal oxides, sulfides, carbon materials and their AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
composites,soitisstillnecessarytodevelopothernewhigh
entropyalloymaterials; The research studied the synthesis and application of the
(3) the surface area of electrode material is small, which leads new high energy alloy material in energy conversion and
to the limited contact area between electrode material storage. HZ studied the electrochemical properties of the new
andelectrolyte; high entrance alloy material. JH did the experiments, and
(4) thehighcrystallinityofthenewhighentrancealloymaterial by comparing the new high entrance alloy materials with
limitsthediffusiondistanceofelectrolyteinthematerial; FeSn 2 , the new high entrance alloy materials have more
(5) most of the new high entry alloy materials have poor advantages in capacity, electrochemical performance, capacity
stability in aqueous solution, and there are problems of stability, and magnification during cyclic charging. HZ wrote
decompositionandframecollapse; themanuscript.
DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT FUNDING
All datasets generated for this study are included in the Public Technology Research Project of Shaoxing Science and
article/supplementarymaterial. TechnologyBureau(No.2013B70030).
REFERENCES
Xu,Y.Q.,Li,Y.H.,Zhu,Z.W.,andZhang,W.(2018).FormationandProperties
ofFe25Co25Ni25(P,C,B,Si)25high-entropybulkmetallicglasses.JNon-Crystal
Chao,Y.,Sheng,J.D.,andChun,F.L.(2016).PorousTiNb24O62microspheresas Solids.487,60–64.doi:10.1016/j.jnoncrysol.2018.02.021
high-performanceanodematerialsforlithium-ionbatteriesofelectricvehicles. Ye,Y.F.,Liu,X.D.,andWang,S.(2016).Thegeneraleffectofatomicsizemisfit
Nanoscale8,18792–18799.doi:10.1039/c6nr04992c onglassformationinconventionalandhigh-entropyalloys.Intermetallics78,
Gao, R. M., Lu, T. H., and Hu, J. (2016). Explicit expression of limit spectral 30–41.doi:10.1016/j.intermet.2016.08.005
density of gao wei sample covariance matrix. J. Jilin Univ. 54, 499–505. Yi, P. L., Hui, J., and Sheng, G. (2017). A new strategy to design eutectic
doi:10.13413/j.cnki.jdxblxb.2016.03.17 high-entropy alloys using mixing enthalpy. Intermetallics 91, 124–128.
Jia, S. C., and Yang, F. P. (2016). Study on fault data location of flexible Ac doi:10.1016/j.intermet.2017.09.001
transmissioncontroller.Comp.Simul.33,180–183. Yurchenko, N., Stepanov, N. D., and Shaysultanov, D. G. (2016). Effect of
Liu,J.B.,Chen,C.X.,andXu,Y.Q.(2017).Deformationtwinningbehaviorsof Al content on structure and mechanical properties of the alxcrnbtivzr
thelowstackingfaultenergyhigh-entropyalloy:anin-situTEMstudy.Script. (X=0; 0.25; 0.5; 1) high-entropy alloys. Mater. Charact. 121, 125–134.
Mater.137,9–12.doi:10.1016/j.scriptamat.2017.05.001 doi:10.1016/j.matchar.2016.09.039
Michael,C.G.,Pan,G.,andJeffrey,A.H.(2017).Computationalmodelingof Zhang, L., Zhou, D., and Bang, S. L. (2018a). Anomalous microstructure
high-entropyalloys:structures,thermodynamicsandelasticity.J.Mater.Res. and excellent mechanical properties of Ni35Al21.67Cr21.67Fe21.67 high-
32,3627–3641.doi:10.1557/jmr.2017.366 entropy alloy with BCC and B2 structure. Mater. Lett. 216, 252–255.
Mike, B., Patrick, B., and Ronald, U. (2017). Multinucleated giant cells in the doi:10.1016/j.matlet.2018.01.124
implantbedofbonesubstitutesareforeignbodygiantcells-newinsightsinto Zhang, W. K., Kong, Q. Y., and Weng, T. C. W. (2018b). Applications of
thematerial-mediatedhealingprocess.J.Biomed.Mater.Res.A105,1105–1111. femtosecond X-ray techniques in chemistry and energy materials science.
doi:10.1002/jbm.a.36006 Physics.8:504–514.doi:10.7693/wl20180803
Rizzardi,Q.,Sparks,G.,andMaaß,R.(2018).Fastslipvelocityinahigh-entropy Zhi, M. L., Fritz, K., and Blazej, G. (2017). Ab initio assisted design of
alloy.JOM70,1088–1093.doi:10.1007/s11837-018-2856-6 quinary dual-phase high-entropy alloys with transformation-induced
Sheng, W., Wang, J. Q., and Wang, G., Huo, J., Wang, X., Li, R. W. (2018). plasticity. Acta Mater. 136, 262–270. doi: 10.1016/j.actamat.2017.
Amorphousmicrowiresofhighentropyalloyswithlargemagnetocaloriceffect. 07.023
Intermetallics96:79–83.doi:10.1016/j.intermet.2018.02.015 Zhou, R., Liu, Y., Zhou, C. S. (2018). Microstructures and mechanical
Shi, Q. R., Zhao, X. H., Shan, Z. B., and Shi, Y. W. (2016). FLOCC-ESPRIT propertiesofC-containingfecocrnihigh-entropyalloyfabricatedbyselective
basedpolarizationarrayparameterestimationmethod.Autom.Instrum.37, laser melting. J. Intermetal. 94, 165–171. doi: 10.1016/j.intermet.2018.
2076–2083.doi:10.3969/j.issn.0254-3087.2016.09.020 01.002
Stepanov, N. D., Yurchenko, N. Y., and Panina, E. S. (2017). Precipitation-
strengthenedrefractoryAl0.5CrNbTi2V0.5highentropyalloy.Mater.Lett.188, ConflictofInterest:JHwasemployedbycompanyZhejiangRuntuCO.LTD.
162–164.doi:10.1016/j.matlet.2016.11.030
Su,S.,Li,P.,Yan,Y.T.,Yang,Y.,Zhang,W.B.(2016).Comparisonofcontrol Theremainingauthordeclaresthattheresearchwasconductedintheabsenceof
strategiesinabattery/supercapacitorhybridenergystoragesystem.Chin.J. anycommercialorfinancialrelationshipsthatcouldbeconstruedasapotential
PowerSources40,585–587. conflictofinterest
WangY.B.,Yang,H.X.,Geng,L.,Guo,Y.K.(2016).Researchonthesurface
quality stability of ultra thin germanium polished wafers. J. Chin. Acad. Copyright©2020ZhouandHe.Thisisanopen-accessarticledistributedunderthe
Electron.Inform.Technol.11,527–531.doi:10.1016/j.tsf.2017.07.001 termsoftheCreativeCommonsAttributionLicense(CCBY).Theuse,distribution
Wu, W., Xie, S. J., Zhang, Z., Chen, W. M., and Pei, X. H. (2016). orreproductioninotherforumsispermitted,providedtheoriginalauthor(s)and
Control strategy analysis and design of supercapacitor energy storage thecopyrightowner(s)arecreditedandthattheoriginalpublicationinthisjournal
system based on combined two-way Dc-Dc converter. J. Power Supply is cited, in accordance with accepted academic practice. No use, distribution or
14,83–101. reproductionispermittedwhichdoesnotcomplywiththeseterms.
FrontiersinEnergyResearch|www.frontiersin.org 11 June2020|Volume8|Article73

