TYPE Review
PUBLISHED 31 July 2026
DOI 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
Machine learning approaches for
electrocatalyst design in water
OPEN ACCESS
splitting: a review for green
EDITED BY
Gioele Pagot,
University of Padua, Italy hydrogen production
REVIEWED BY
Shiyan Wang,
Nanjing University of Posts and
Telecommunications, China Vamsi Krishna Kudapa1*, Shoaib Mohd2, Vijayakumar Sivasundar3,
Zhanwu Lei, Akanksha Mishra4, Santosh Kumar Sahu5*, Diaa S. Metwally6and
University of Science and Technology of
China, China Mohammed Aman7*
*CORRESPONDENCE
1Department of Chemical Engineering, Energy Cluster, UPES, Dehradun, India, 2Department of Petroleum
Vamsi Krishna Kudapa,
Engineering, Energy Cluster, UPES, Dehradun, India, 3Department of Mechanical Engineering, Saveetha
vkkudapa@ddn.upes.ac.in
School of Engineering, SIMATS, Saveetha University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India, 4Department of
Santosh Kumar Sahu,
Mechanical Engineering, Sharda School of Engineering & Sciences, Sharda University, Greater Noida,
santoshkumar.sahu@vitap.ac.in,
India, 5School of Mechanical Engineering, VIT-AP University, Amaravati, Andhra Pradesh, India, 6Deanship
sksahumech@gmail.com
of Scientific Research, Imam Mohammad Ibn Saud Islamic University (IMSIU), Riyadh, Saudi Arabia,
Mohammed Aman,
7Department of Industrial Engineering, College of Engineering, University of Business and Technology,
m.aman@ubt.edu.sa
Jeddah, Saudi Arabia
RECEIVED 29 May 2026
REVISED 04 July 2026
ACCEPTED 10 July 2026
PUBLISHED 31 July 2026 The production of green hydrogen through water splitting requires highly efficient
electrocatalysts, but the current trial-and-error-based synthesis or discovery is
CITATION
Kudapa VK, Mohd S, Sivasundar V, time-consuming, costly and resource-intensive. Machine learning (ML) provides a
Mishra A, Sahu SK, Metwally DS and powerful, data-driven alternative that can model complex structure-activity
Aman M (2026) Machine learning
relationships across large chemical spaces at orders-of-magnitude speed. This
approaches for electrocatalyst design in
water splitting: a review for green review systematically overviews the life cycle of the electrocatalyst research and
hydrogen production. development application of ML. First, the thermodynamic and kinetic principles of
Front. Chem. 14:1894425.
the hydrogen and oxygen evolution reactions are summarised, along with some
doi: 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
well-adopted and accepted activity descriptors. Then we explore data sources,
COPYRIGHT
featurization approaches, and algorithms, and discuss the model space, from a
© 2026 Kudapa, Mohd, Sivasundar,
Mishra, Sahu, Metwally and Aman. This is simple interpretable model to a graph neural network to a generative model, in the
an open-access article distributed under context of the ML toolkit. Strategic applications are discussed for high-throughput
the terms of the Creative Commons
virtual screening of alloys and single-atom catalysts, as well as multifunctional
Attribution License (CC BY). The use,
distribution or reproduction in other activity prediction for overall water splitting, and stability optimisation under
forums is permitted, provided the original operating conditions. The topic of emerging frontiers is highlighted, including
author(s) and the copyright owner(s) are
high-entropy alloys, amorphous materials, and linking atomic-scale
credited and that the original publication
in this journal is cited, in accordance with understanding to device-level performance through integration with density
accepted academic practice. No use, functional theory. Finally, the problems of data scarcity, model interpretability
distribution or reproduction is permitted
and the discrepancy between computational predictions and industrial
which does not comply with these terms.
implementation are discussed, along with future directions for closed-loop
discovery and self-driving laboratories. Incorporating ML into electrocatalyst
design and combining it with autonomous experimentation will revolutionise
this process, from simulation to energy solution, dramatically speeding it up.
KEYWORDS
electrocatalyst design, green hydrogen, high-throughput screening, machine learning,
water splitting
Frontiers in Chemistry 01 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
1 Introduction
2026). Combined with quantum mechanical calculations, ML
potentials enable simulations of thousands-of-atom interfaces to
Given the increasing worldwide energy demand and the help clarify the synergistic role of solvent, surface composition, and
imperative to decarbonize industrial economies, interest in morphology in modulating catalytic activity (Keith et al., 2021).
sustainable energy carriers has surged (Li et al., 2023). Hydrogen Herein, we present a broad overview of the machine-learning
has become an interesting candidate since it is a zero-emission fuel toolbox for electrocatalyst design in water splitting. We begin
of the high gravimetric energy density category and can be produced with electrochemical basics—the thermodynamics and kinetics
from renewable-power-driven pathways (Gao et al., 2024). Among that govern HER and OER, key performance metrics, and the
different production pathways, an electrochemical route supplying scaling relationships that define common catalyst design. We
hydrogen through water splitting is dominant: it is the most efficient then turn to the data ecosystem that underpins ML applications:
and sustainable pathway for high-purity hydrogen production when sources and curation strategies, featurization methods that convert
coupled with renewable electricity (Li et al., 2023). However, these atomic structures into machine-readable representations, and an
technologies have not been well-promoted for the moment owing to algorithmic landscape spanning interpretable regression models to
two barriers: their high energy consumption for the slow oxygen state-of-the-art graph neural networks. While there have been a
evolution reaction (OER) and the cost of using efficient number of recent reviews on machine learning for electrocatalysis,
electrocatalytic (Gao et al., 2024). At the anode, the oxygen most have focused on the development of a specific algorithm or a
evolution reaction has terrible kinetics due to multi-electron class of catalysts. This review takes a holistic approach to the catalyst
transfer paths and the lability of a few other oxygenated life cycle, integrating fundamental concepts in electrochemistry,
intermediates. At the cathode, while more favourable in a kinetic catalyst descriptors, materials databases, feature engineering,
sense, hydrogen evolution still requires catalytic surfaces that bind machine learning algorithms, explainable artificial intelligence,
intermediates optimally per the Sabatier principle. These half- generative AI, autonomous experimentation, and future self-
reactions, in total, require electrocatalysts capable of lowering the driving laboratories into a single framework. Moreover, in this
activation barriers, along with being characterized by rapid charge review, the current methodologies are critically examined,
transfer kinetics and stability owing to the harsh, corrosive unresolved challenges (such as dataset bias, model uncertainties,
operational environment. Traditional catalyst discovery, rooted in interpretability, and the prediction of long-term catalyst stability)
iterative trial-and-error experimentation, has thus far been are highlighted, and future research directions towards fully
inherently incapable of satisfying these demands. This Edisonian autonomous catalyst discovery platforms are suggested.
exploration is slow, labor intensive and expensive in terms of
resources; it can take months or years at this scale basis to
2 Electrochemical foundations and
simply peck and poke at how small chunks of the composition
catalyst performance descriptors
landscape are (Ding L. et al., 2024; Bushion et al., 2026; Li et al.,
2023). However, the majority of possible alloys, oxides and single
atom catalysts remain uncharted, and there are not many clear 2.1 Thermodynamics and kinetics of the
pathways to pursue. The whole concept of ML is a change of hydrogen and oxygen evolution reactions
paradigm in itself, and moves the domain of knowledge
discovery. The discovery of two-dimensional semimetals with Electrochemical water splitting is the electrochemical
atomic precision in just orders of magnitude lower in cost, with decomposition of liquid water into gaseous hydrogen and oxygen
calculations at near DFT level of accuracy, is made possible by data- through a pair of thermodynamically coupled half-reactions: the H
2
driven (ML) statistical models to screen thousands of candidates in evolution reaction (HER) at the cathode and the O evolution
2
silico and calculate adsorption energies at near (DFT) level of reaction (OER) at the anode. A mechanistic perspective of the
accuracy (Ding L. et al., 2024; Wang C. et al., 2025). In our thermodynamic limitations and kinetic challenges that shape
example, this can involve modelling subtle dependencies that are these reactions is crucial to building a foundation for rational
not intuitive, such as including crystal structure, electronic catalyst design.
configuration, and the conditions used to synthesize the material, The hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) is an electron-hopping
properties of which are described in high-dimensional vectors. multi-step process and can be carried out by the Volmer Heyrovsky
The effect is not merely straightforward acceleration. Machine or the Volmer–Tafel mechanism in an acid medium (Gao et al.,
learning unlocks compositional spaces previously considered 2024; Srinivasan et al., 2026). This response begins by proton
unreachable: high-entropy alloys, where an abnormally large adsorption on the catalyst surface (Volmer step) and derives an
number of elements must coexist with one another; amorphous adsorbed hydrogen species. This intermediate is then desorbed in an
materials with no long-range order; and multi-principal element electrochemical recombination reaction with a second proton and
systems that are not amenable to classical scaling relations (Tran electron (Heyrovsky step) or in a chemical recombination reaction
et al., 2023). In many existing ML models developed with large data between two adjacent adsorbed hydrogen adatoms (Tafel step). In
sets (both high-throughput and empirical), they have been coupled alkaline media, the mechanism changes again: rather than protons,
and used to predict things like which catalysts resist galvanic water molecules dissociatively adsorb, supplying hydrogen atoms
corrosion when in chloride environments or handle anodic and adding yet another kinetic complication. The hydrogen
competition during seawater electrolysis, enabling the adsorption Gibbs free energy, ΔGH, is the most important
optimization of stable electrocatalysts for in-situ use within thermodynamic descriptor of any electrode material: an ideal
oceans due to their driving force (Din et al., 2025; Sead et al., catalyst binds hydrogen neither too strongly (poisons the surface)
Frontiers in Chemistry 02 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
FIGURE 1
Volcano plots for the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) in acid (right side) and alkaline (left side) aqueous solutions, showing exchange current
density (j0) as a function of hydrogen adsorption free energy (ΔGad). Data points represent densely-packed metal surfaces (mostly fcc (111)), with error bars
indicating experimental variations. Oxide-covered metals are excluded. The ascending branch shows increased rate with more favorable (negative) ΔGad,
but no clear descending branch is observed except for Ni and Co. (Quaino et al., 2014).
nor weakly (prevents adsorption), ΔGH ≈ 0 eV. As noted above, this
relationship is often depicted in the HER volcano plot, in which
exchange current density is plotted as a function of hydrogen
adsorption free energy (ΔGH), thereby illustrating the Sabatier
principle in electrocatalysis, as shown in Figure 1.
Figure 1 represents volcano plots of the hydrogen evolution
reaction (HER) in acid (a) and alkaline aqueous solution (b), where
j is plotted as a function of ΔG_ad for bulk transition metals with
0
densely-packed metal surfaces (mostly fcc(111)). The error bars are
the average of experimental variations available in the literature;
oxide-covered metals were omitted, owing to a potential disregard
for the descending branch of data. The upward trend of the branch
clearly indicates that as ΔG_ad approaches more negative values
(more favorable), catalytic activity continues to increase, in
agreement with the Sabatier principle. On all d-band metals but
Ni and Co, a clear descending branch is missing (indicating that
Sabatier’s principle adjuncted with the second requisite of catalytic FIGURE 2
activity does not adequately characterize HER kinetics). This
Generalized OER volcano plots comparing RuO2(110) and
IrO2(110) at U = 1.60 V vs. RHE, demonstrating the influence of the *O
suggests that extra descriptors like d-band position, vs. *OH scaling relation intercept on catalytic activity. The volcano
metal–hydrogen orbital overlap are needed for rationalizing apex shifts based on the scaling parameters, with RuO2 showing
electrocatalytic activity.
higher intrinsic activity than IrO2 under both acidic and alkaline
conditions—consistent with experimental observations. This illustrates
Metals (Pt-group) are notably clustering in the apex of the crater, the thermodynamic limitations imposed by scaling relations on OER
whereas mild attractions of MoS lead to continuous investigations electrocatalysts (Sokolov and Exner, 2024).
2
on HER catalysts based on non-precious metals. The kinetic
penalties in the oxygen evolution reaction are far more
pronounced. Such a four-electron, four-proton transfer happens
through a succession of adsorbed oxygenate intermediates (OH, O, OOH + OH− → O + H O + e−. First, for acidic electrolytes, water
2 2
and OOH), each requiring different stabilization energies (Hu et al., serves as the oxygen source, resulting in inverted intermediate
2024). In alkaline media, the standard reaction pathway is OH− → energetics. In fact, the overpotential required to kinetically inject
OH + e−; OH + OH− → O + H O + e−; O + OH− → OOH + e−; and into OER, typically 300–400 mV on the best catalysts, is simply a
2
Frontiers in Chemistry 03 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
measure of these energy losses added up across each respective with oxygen formation during seawater electrolysis can divert
sequential elemental reaction step. This slow kinetics is the key electrons from the targeted pathway (Chen et al., 2025).
reason for the decrease in overall energy conversion efficiency in Prolonged stability determines functionality despite governing
water electrolysis. Thus, OER emerges as a performance-limiting considerably after early action. Accelerated failure procedures
step (Seh et al., 2017). almost always consist of thousands of galvanostatic cycles or
100 s of hours of device operation, distilling mechanistic causes
2.2 Key performance metrics: from that include changes in active-site dissolution, surface
overpotential to durability reconstructions, particle agglomeration, and corrosion of the
catalyst support (Grim et al., 2020). Recently, high-entropy
More generally, assessing electrocatalyst activity requires a ruthenium oxide catalysts were demonstrated to achieve 1500 h
battery of quantitative metrics spanning intrinsic activity and of stability at 100 mA cm−2 with extremely low degradation (Qian
pragmatic viability. Overpotential, η, is the additional voltage et al., 2025), thereby offering a promising alternative to the long-
applied beyond the thermodynamic equilibrium potential of a standing shortcoming of conventional OER electrocatalysts.
reaction required to drive it at some specific current density. At
a typical current density for various catalyst activity comparisons 2.3 Primer on major electrolyzer
(10 mA cm−2), state-of-the-art platinum faces virtually no technologies and their catalyst demands
overpotential for HER (η ≈ 20 mV), and iridium oxide has η
~300–400 mV typically for OER (Li, 2022). The Tafel slope, Different electrolyser architectures can lead to distinct
which is in the linear portion of a plot of overpotential versus operational environments, each requiring specific catalyst
log current density, provides additional information about reaction properties. Proton exchange membrane electrolyzers can also
kinetics and the rate-determining step; for example, slopes around operate in very acidic conditions (pH ≈ 0–2), featuring rapid
30 mV dec−1, 40 mV dec−1, and 120 mV dec−1 imply that the process start-up, high current densities (1–4 A cm−2), and small system
is Tafel-, Heyrovsky-, or Volmer-limited. footprints. This acidic and corrosive environment, along with large
Exchange current density, j , is a metric for the intrinsic rate of anodic overpotential, leads to a very small window of viable OER
0
charge transfer at equilibrium, which can be thought of as a catalysts, which are mainly precious metal-based oxide (primarily
material-specific, overpotential-independent activity descriptor. ruthenium and iridium), resistant to dissolution at the aggressive
Figure 2 illustrates how the original performance metrics are conditions (Wang T. et al., 2022). Overcoming this limitation,
translated into actual catalyst designs by employing multiple however, necessitates catalysts that can mediate potential-free
materials engineering methodologies to simultaneously optimise reaction with sub-ppm amassment of active sites. The prohibitive
the number of active sites and intrinsic activity, which, in turn, cost and meagre worldwide supply of iridium (annual production <
are connected in series to improve overall catalytic activity. 9 tons) render a major bottleneck for gigawatt-scale PEM
Figure 2 presents Generalized volcano plots for the oxygen implementations, while redirecting considerable research towards
evolution reaction (OER) of RuO (110) and IrO (110). Volcanos both iridium-free substitutes and ultra-low-loading architectures
2 2
are generated by first comparing activity under conditions where (Pham et al., 2021).
1.60 V vs. RHE is applied), then selecting that value to plot all surface The alkaline electrolysers are operated in a concentrated KOH
combinations. The thermodynamic constraints of scaling relations electrolyte (pH ≈ 14), providing a less corrosive environment that
between the O and *OH reaction intermediates are shown through enables earth-abundant transition-metal catalysts. The nickel,
the volcano relationship. The intercept (ξ′ ) of the *O vs. *OH cobalt, and iron-based materials are the most investigated
1
scaling relation is critical in determining both volcanic position and systems in this regard and show great OER activity in alkaline
shape, with values ranging between classes of materials. In both media, with that of NiFe layered double hydroxide reaching close to
pH conditions, RuO always shows more intrinsic activity than with the precious metal benchmark (Luo et al., 2022). Disadvantages of
2
respect to IrO which is in agreement with experiments. Moreover, alkaline systems include carbonate precipitation from ambient CO ,
2 2
the experimentally derived adsorption free energies (ΔG 0) for both reduced current densities, and hydrogen crossover, which requires
1
catalysts are near the volcano plot apex—it is presumed that such thicker membranes and larger system footprints.
bonds of *OH are near optimal. This figure illustrates that scaling Anion exchange membrane electrolyzers combine the strengths
relations can restrict maximum OER activity, whose optimization is of both architectures: they operate under alkaline conditions suitable
possible by tuning the *O vs. *OH scaling intercept—not the often for non-precious catalysts while retaining the size and fast response
emphasizedOOH vs. *OH relation—provides a guideline for better characteristics of membrane-based systems. Among these, both the
OER electrocatalysts discovery. oriented AEMs and polyelectrolytes that meet durability, ionic
These strategies highlight that catalyst design is a balance conductivity, and stability requirements at high current densities
between the approach of maximizing available active sites and still constitute one of several dynamic research frontiers (Wu et al.,
optimizing their intrinsic catalytic properties to achieve improved 2025). Direct seawater electrolysis is a particularly promising
activity. Unsurprisingly, HER platinum demonstrates a j ≈ pathway that utilises these large marine resources increasingly
0
1 mA cm−2, on the order of magnitude higher than its non- effectively; moreover, the catalysts must also resist chloride
precious-metal counterpart. The lack of selectivity toward corrosion-fouling due to precipitation and side reactions
undesired products is assessed using faradaic efficiency (FE) competing for chlorine evolution (Din et al., 2025).
measurements, which are particularly critical for the OER, as Comparison of the key water electrolysis technologies side by
carbon corrosion and chlorine evolution pathways that compete side: PEM, alkaline, AEM and direct seawater. Table 1summarises
Frontiers in Chemistry 04 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
TABLE 1 Comparison of electrolyzer technologies and their catalyst demands (Din et al., 2025; Pham et al., 2021; Wang T. et al., 2022).
Electrolyzer type Operating Key advantages Catalyst requirements Typical Challenges
conditions catalysts
Proton Exchange Acidic (pH 0–2), High current density, fast Acid-stable, high OER activity, IrO2, RuO2, Pt/C High cost, scarce Ir/Ru,
Membrane (PEM) 1–4 A cm−2 response, compact design low metal dissolution limited durability
Alkaline (AEM) Alkaline (pH ≈ 14), Non-precious metal Alkaline-stable, high NiFe-LDH, Co3O4, Carbonate precipitation,
0.2–1 A cm−2 catalysts are less corrosive conductivity, carbonate NiMo alloys lower current density
resistance
Anion Exchange Alkaline (pH 12–14), Non-precious metals, Alkaline stability, membrane NiFe-based, Co- Membrane stability,
Membrane (AEM) 1–2 A cm−2 compact design, fast durability, high ionic based, perovskite limited long-term
response conductivity oxides durability
Direct Seawater Near-neutral to alkaline, Abundant water source, no Chlorine corrosion resistance, NiFe-LDH, high- Chloride oxidation,
Cl−-rich environment freshwater demand high OER selectivity entropy alloys, MnO2 fouling, precipitation
TABLE 2 Summary of key DFT-based datasets for electrocatalyst ML training (Back et al., 2021; Chanussot et al., 2021; Correa-Baena et al., 2018; Liu et al.,
2023).
Dataset name Size and scope Materials covered Target properties Key
reference
Open Catalyst 2020 ~1.3 million DFT relaxations Metals, alloys, intermetallics, Adsorption energies, forces, relaxed Chanussot et al.
(OC20) surfaces structures (2021)
Open Catalyst 2022 62,331 DFT relaxations (~10M single-point Oxides, perovskites, high- OER intermediate adsorption, oxygen Tran et al. (2023)
(OC22) calculations) entropy oxides binding
Materials Project >150,000 inorganic crystals Bulk crystalline materials Formation energies, band structures, Jain et al. (2013)
Pourbaix diagrams
NREL Materials >1.4 million DFT calculations Semiconductors, oxides, Band gaps, formation energies, electronic Stevanović et al.
Database chalcogenides structure (2012)
QMOF Database ~20,000 metal-organic frameworks MOFs with diverse metal nodes Band gaps, pore volumes, gas adsorption Rosen et al. (2021)
the operating conditions (pH and current density), the major energy for other intermediates of the class of catalysts. This leads
benefits, the need for catalysts, typical materials, and the major to ΔGOOH of about 3.2 ± 0.2 eV, which is equal to ΔGOH for OER,
development challenges for each. It provides a link between the and corresponds to the same bonding configurations found at the
previous section on electrochemical kinetics (HER/OER) and the top of metal oxide surfaces. This scaling principle suggests a
device’s realistic requirements and identifies the changes in catalyst thermodynamic limitation: maximizing one intermediary will
use needed due to the presence of acid, alkali, or chloride. This table always come at the price of optimizing another intermediary, and
further serves the purpose of the later sections by listing the stability the optimum overpotential is always the very minimum
required and cost restrictions desired by the ML. (0.2–0.3 eV), which is not attainable in standard means of
surface engineering. The same very fundamental scaling
2.4 Established activity descriptors and restriction can be expressed for OER activity as volcano curve
scaling relations (Figure 3) that implies that as the deviation from optimal mid-
point binding energetics increases, so does the intrinsic limiting
The Sabatier principle can be simply applied to the design of minimum achievable OER overpotential (Li, 2022).
catalysts; too strong or too weak an intermediate interaction will not Figure 3is an estimate of how far intermediate binding energies
give the most active catalyst. Platinum is on top of this busy volcano can deviate from scale, thus motivating new design strategies that go
plot which is now dominated by ΔGH for HER as the main beyond existing scaling relationships. Avoiding these scaling
descriptor of hydrogen adsorption free energy, HER. For OER, relations is a major challenge in the design of next-generation
the situation is even more complicated as the energies of binding catalysts. These approaches include stabilization of intermediates
with the several intermediates (OH, O, OOH) are also coupled to by second coordination sphere effects, utilizing ensemble effects on
some extent by the interactions; thus, it is not possible to tune the multimetallic surfaces, and active site engineering with respect to
others binding energies independently (Kibsgaard and conventional adsorption geometries (Govindarajan et al., 2019).
Chorkendorff, 2019). This mutual dependence is presented as Specific classes of materials, such as high-entropy alloys (HEAs),
“scaling relations” – linear relations between the adsorption offer exciting opportunities: the multitude of local coordination
Frontiers in Chemistry 05 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
synthesized and organized in a manner that helps systematically
accustom ML models to quantitative structure–property relations,
which are subsequently employed for intelligently steering catalyst
design (Jiang et al., 2024).
With a focus on high-throughput computational methods, this
data landscape has changed rapidly. An example is the Open
Catalyst 2020 dataset (Chanussot et al., 2021), which comprises
around 1.3 million DFT relaxations on a plethora of materials,
surfaces and adsorbates: several orders of magnitude more training
examples than was attainable even recently. Its successor, OC22,
massively extends this dataset to oxide materials, comprising
62,331 DFT relaxations (nearly ten million single-point
calculations), and is designed specifically for the oxygen
evolution reaction (OER). This allows atomist machine learning
FIGURE 3 models to be trained with a scale hitherto impossible, sampling
Volcano-type relationship illustrating the dependence of OER
overpotential on intermediate adsorption energies, highlighting the applied chemical and compositional diversity spanning elemental
limitation imposed by scaling relations and the concept of an ideal combinations of the periodic table. Such large-scale catalyst
catalyst (Govindarajan et al., 2019).
databases span a wide variety of materials classes, adsorbates and
atomistic simulation outputs, as shown in Figure 4.
These datasets underpin much of modern data-centric catalysis
environments they present fosters a continuous spectrum of possible and enable machine-learning models to generalize across broad
adsorption sites that can potentially facilitate independent regions of chemical space, making predictions on catalytic activity at
adjustment of multiple intermediates (Xu S. et al., 2024). scale. However, real experimental data are still hard to feed. Diverse
Similarly, metal–support interactions and coordination- synthesis/characterisation regions and protocols lead to
environment engineering help single-atom catalysts attain heterogeneous reporting methods, limiting the production of
uncommon binding configurations (Tong et al., 2022). Found harmonised, machine-readable databases. Examples of such
only at deeper scales, these well-known descriptors and their datasets would have many features of (1) the catalyst, including
associated scaling relations form the theoretical foundation on composition, morphology, crystal structure and surface area as well
which machine-learning models can base themselves to further as accurate electrochemical measurements for (2) properties like
develop and ultimately surpass. With training on data from overpotential, exchange current density, Tafel slopes and stability
many material families, ML-based approaches can learn novel metrics (Ding R. et al., 2024; Li et al., 2023). Importantly, these
descriptors and detect deviations from scaling to predict catalytic datasets need to include both positive and negative outcomes since
activity across compositional spaces where conventional heuristics biases in the published literature towards the positive also lead to
do not work. systematic bias in models, which impacts their generalizability (Xu S.
et al., 2024).
This Table 2 catalogs five large-scale computational databases
3 The machine learning toolkit for
that underpin modern ML, training: Open Catalyst 2020/2022,
materials informatics
Materials Project, NREL, Database, and QMOF., it specifies
dataset size, materials covered, target properties (adsorption
Machine learning is a set of disruptive statistical methods in energies, band gaps, Pourbaix diagrams), and key references. By
which predictive models use input data to enable computational quantifying the scale (e.g., ~1.3 million DFT, relaxations for OC20)
algorithms to search for non-linear correlations between material and diversity (oxides, MOFs, semiconductors), the table illustrates
properties and catalytic activities. These models enable the potential why these resources enable generalizable ML, models. It directly
to attain Density Functional Theory-level accuracy at whole orders follows the text’s discussion on high-throughput data and serves as a
of magnitude reduced and cheaper computational cost, thereby practical reference for readers seeking training data.
establishing ML as a staple in accelerated electrocatalyst discovery The solutions to address such challenges are strong data
(Chen et al., 2025; Wang X. et al., 2025). architectures and stringency in data curation standards. With the
help of Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Pattern Recognition
3.1 The catalyst data ecosystem: sources
technique, more recently, published documents have been mined to
and curation
retrieve the outcomes of synthesis actions, characterization,
performance metrics, etc (Suvarna et al., 2023). Standardized
Everything a machine learning model can do, in terms of internal representations of data (e.g., MDL files, linear notation
prediction, depends on the training data, its amount, quality, and (SMILES and InChI)) make it readily accessible for algorithmic
variety. The electrocatalysis data ecosystem consists of two primary analysis and reproducibility (Grajciar et al., 2018). These efforts are
contributions: one computational (mostly density functional theory warranted because, other than an increasingly rich and growing
calculations) and the other experimental metrics such as high-quality in situ and operando data set that is used to train
electrochemical efficiency and material characterisation various AI strategies in heterogeneous catalysis (Bowker et al., 2022;
measurements. These diverse and multi-fold data streams can be Chen et al., 2023).
Frontiers in Chemistry 06 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
FIGURE 4
Schematic representation of the Open Catalyst 2020 (OC20) dataset, illustrating its compositional diversity, descriptor space, and atomistic
simulation workflows used for training machine learning models in catalysis(Chanussot et al., 2021).
3.1.1 Challenges in catalyst data quality, bias and generated data sets. While DFT provides physically relevant
reproducibility descriptors, these approximations carry over into machine-
learning predictions and must be considered in uncertainty
The success of any machine learning model ultimately hinges on analysis. Recent advances in uncertainty-aware neural networks,
the quality, diversity, and reliability of its training data. Although the Bayesian optimisation, Monte Carlo dropout, Gaussian Process
number of available computational databases of catalysts has Regression, and ensemble learning provide probabilistic
increased significantly, there are still problems that limit the confidence intervals in addition to catalyst predictions. This type
generalizability of the models. An important issue is the of method would allow better screening of catalysts, separating more
imbalance of the datasets. Successful catalysts with high catalytic confident predictions from more uncertain extrapolations.
activities have been reported in published literature, but
unsuccessful experiments are rarely reported. This publication 3.2 Featurization: representing catalysts for
bias leads to an overestimation of catalyst performance and ML models
diminishes the capacity of machine learning models to discover
genuinely new materials. Another significant limitation arises from A good featurization encodes complex physicochemical
variations in the experimental protocols. Often, electrochemical properties of the catalysts in a machine-readable format, with
measurements are performed with varying electrolyte implications to both predictive power and interpretability of any
compositions, pH values, temperatures, catalyst loadings, and models trained on top (Mou L. et al., 2023; Mou T. et al., 2023). It
electrode preparation techniques. Reported overpotentials, Tafel involves selecting (or training) descriptors that capture critical
slopes, and stability values may therefore not be directly information about structural, electronic, and thermodynamic
comparable, leading to systematic uncertainties in machine features, ranging from elemental properties and structural motifs
learning models. to computed electronic band structures and adsorption energies.
In addition, there are intrinsic uncertainties due to the The method uses molecular descriptors (indicators of the structure)
approximations in the exchange-correlation functionals, the finite to describe a catalyst’s properties and relate that experimental
size of the supercell, the convergence thresholds, and the behaviour with fundamental structural characteristics (Escayola
assumptions about surface reconstruction made with DFT- et al., 2024). These encompass the simplest kind of compositional
Frontiers in Chemistry 07 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
FIGURE 5
Applications of graph neural networks in molecular and materials informatics for catalyst discovery and property prediction. (a) Prediction of
molecular properties including ADMET behavior, environmental interactions, and toxicity assessment. (b) Iterative graph-based molecular optimization
and screening workflow. (c) Learning of node and edge embeddings for reaction completion and molecular fragment generation. (d) GNN-assisted
excited-state dynamics and machine learning-driven coarse-grained simulations. (e) Explainable graph neural network framework for interpretable
predictions and scientific understanding. (f) Stability prediction and defect classification in metal–organic frameworks and disordered materials. (g)
Surface reaction simulations and prediction of polycrystalline material behavior using graph-based representations. (h) Atomic-scale understanding of
particle interactions in amorphous solids and liquids through GNN-enabled modeling (Reiser et al., 2022).
features, atomic numbers, electronegativities, ionic radii, and more and scientific interpretability. The molecular-level learning tasks
complex features that represent coordination environments, bond of predicting ADMET characteristics, reaction completion,
distributions and electronic configurations. In periodic systems, the explainable AI, and coarse-grained simulations are emphasized in
atoms are represented as nodes, and the chemical bonds are (a–e), while (f–h) show applications to crystalline, polycrystalline,
represented as edges on a crystal graph, enabling Graph Neural and amorphous material systems. Overall, this figure highlights the
Networks (GNNs) to learn directly from the structure of the crystal ability of GNNs to efficiently capture complex structure–property
graph without hand-crafted features (Motagamwala et al., 2018). relationships directly from atomic environments, making them
A detailed summary of electrocatalyst-discovery applications of promising tools for structure-aware machine learning approaches
graph neural networks (GNNs) is shown in Figure 5. The figure to accelerated catalyst discovery and materials optimisation. A
illustrates the GNN architecture’s ability to address several crystal graph representation atom based is shown, with atoms
challenges in property prediction, virtual screening, inverse represented as nodes and chemical bonds as edges. This graph
materials design, atomistic simulations, synthesis optimisation, structure is then given as an input to graph neural networks (GNNs)
Frontiers in Chemistry 08 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
TABLE 3 Overview of key machine learning datasets and featurization strategies.
Dataset/ Description Key features Material Primary application Ref.
Featurization classes
covered
Open Catalyst 2020 ~1.3 million DFT relaxations of Adsorption energies, forces, Metals, alloys, HER, CO2 reduction, general Chanussot
(OC20) materials, surfaces, and adsorbates bulk and surface structures intermetallics catalysis et al. (2021)
Open Catalyst 2022 62,331 DFT relaxations (~10M Oxide surfaces, OER Oxides, perovskites, OER, oxygen electrocatalysis Tran et al.
(OC22) single-point calculations) intermediates, oxygen high-entropy oxides (2023)
adsorption
Crystal Graph Atoms as nodes, bonds as edges in Coordination environment, Crystalline materials, Structure–property Peng et al.
Representations graph neural networks local geometry, bond order alloys, oxides prediction, GNN-based (2022)
screening
Descriptor-Based Hand-crafted features (e.g., d-band Elemental properties, electronic Alloys, high-entropy Interpretable models, Mou L. et al.
Featurization centre, electronegativity, ionic structure, thermodynamic alloys, SACs descriptor discovery (2023)
radius) stability
to learn atomic environments and predict properties without hand non-linear) ability of machine learning to learn solid structural
crafted descriptors. The figure pictorially illustrates how the GNNs relationships from data with our physically-domain knowledge of
account for local coordination, bond order and periodicity–which the governing processes through the imposition of our domain
will be further discussed later in the paper in relation with the knowledge in physical processes at either model architectures or loss
structure-aware ML for electrocatalysis. functions so that we can guide our learner toward physically
It is worth noting that the optimal featurization strategy depends meaningful solutions while offering it competent feature
heavily on the material class and the specific catalytic reaction. In the descriptors (Omranpour et al., 2025).
case of single-atom catalysts, attributes that describe not only the Table 3shows an overview of four representative featurization
metal centre and its coordination environment but also properties of strategies adopted in electrocatalysis ML: 1) the adsorption energies
the support become indispensable (Wang X. et al., 2025). The of the molecules in the dataset (OC20/OC22), 2) featurization of the
immense compositional space poses unique challenges for high- crystal graph of the molecules (GNN inputs), 3) hand-crafted
entropy alloys, necessitating new methods that can represent local features such as d band centre (descriptors-based featurization).
chemical environments and their distributions. Two main strategies For every, the table provides key features captured, material classes
have been developed: the “direct” prediction from unrelaxed covered and primary applications (HER/OER screening,
structures using hand-crafted features or end-to-end graph structure–property prediction). It provides insights into the
networks, and the “iterative” prediction through machine trade-off between end-to-end graph learning and interpretable
learning potentials, which only requires a guide for structural descriptor approaches, and continues to drive home the point
relaxation until energy calculation after adsorption (Wang that the choice of featurization will affect metrics such as
J. et al., 2025). predictive performance and model transparency.
GPH convolutional networks have been shown to excel at
learning representations directly from atomic structures. These 3.3 Algorithmic landscape: from simple
models thus learn to capture a chemical environment responsible models to deep networks
for catalytic activity without explicit feature engineering, by passing
information through neighbour graphs. Training such models on Building a machine learning architecture that is both accurate
diverse datasets of materials containing a range of adsorbates and and easy to understand requires a trade-off among accuracy,
surface terminations is, however, far from trivial in terms of their interpretability, computational resource costs, and data
generalizability (Kolluru et al., 2022). Methods such as Surf Graph requirements. The scope of this algorithm ranges from linear
circumvent these limitations by employing subgraph models to sophisticated deep learning architectures, each with its
representations that describe adsorbate chemical environments, own merits for specific tasks and materials systems. Some of the
allowing the balance of end-to-end feature learning with initial methods to predict catalyst properties employed linear
chemical intuition in characterizing local interactions essential for regression, support vector machines, and decision trees. These
catalysis (Ghanekar et al., 2022). models are not too complicated, not too complex, are not too
Because learned representations are “black box,” interpretable costly, and are attractive in terms of downstream speed and
featurization strategies that sacrifice some physical intuitions are understandability (Li et al., 2023). This suite of features provides
often used. Descriptor-based methods, e.g., using physically accurate classification of solid-solution phases of HEAs, with
meaningful features (e.g., d-band centre, coordination numbers, varying lengths of descriptor ensembles, and support vector
or adsorption energies), are interpretable but tend to have lower machines can work with highly complex decision boundaries in
predictive power than learned representations. Physics-informed the higher-dimensional space of the descriptors. The kernel ridge
machine learning merges the (while also without loss of generality regression is a generalised linear technique that transforms the
Frontiers in Chemistry 09 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
TABLE 4 Comparison of common ML interatomic potentials for electrocatalysis simulations. Source.
Potential Architecture Key features Typical Computational Best suited for Key
name type accuracy cost reference
(MAE)
SchNet Continuous- Rotationally invariant, ~0.05 eV (energies), Medium Molecular dynamics, Schütt et al.
filter CNN end-to-end learning ~0.05 eV/Å (forces) adsorption energies (2018)
DimeNet++ Directional message Includes angle ~0.03 eV (energies) High Oxide surfaces, complex Gasteiger et al.
passing information, 3-body coordination (2022)
interactions environments
GemNet Geometric message 4-body interactions ~0.02 eV (energies) Very high Large-scale interface Gasteiger et al.
passing (dihedral angles) simulations (2024)
MACE Atomic cluster Many-body expansion, ~0.01 eV (energies) Medium High-entropy alloys, Batatia et al.
expansion linear scaling disordered systems (2023)
Allegro Local equivariant Strictly local, E(3) ~0.02 eV (energies) Medium-High Large systems Musaelian et al.
transformer equivariant (>10,000 atoms) (2022)
vector of inputs into a higher dimensional feature space, to represent In general, the figure illustrates the growing importance of data-
nonlinearities in convex optimisations that define locality of extrema driven approaches to more rapidly discover alloys for
and minimise risk. But as the datasets became larger and more electrocatalysis and to minimise the time spent on full trial-and-
complex, so did the techniques. Random forests leverage predictions error experiments.
from hundreds of decision trees, which prevents overfitting when A comparative chart positioning common ML algorithms
ranking feature importance (i.e., dictating which descriptors have (linear models, random forests, GNNs, PINNs, generative
the most influence on catalytic performance). Gradient boosting models) along three axes: interpretability, computational
machines such as XGBoost, LightGBM, and CatBoost improve complexity, and predictive capability. It helps readers decide
iteratively upon their predictions by focusing on samples that which algorithm class suits a given task–fast, interpretable
were previously mis predicted and have achieved state-of-the-art models for descriptor mining versus high-capacity deep networks
performance for moderate-sized training sets (Chen et al., 2025) for adsorption energy prediction–while acknowledging the inherent
over tabular data. trade-offs. Now, deep learning architectures have taken over for
Table 4 a technical comparison of five state-of-the-art ML advanced material representations. Convolutional neural networks,
interatomic potentials: SchNet, DimeNet++, GemNet, MACE, which emerged as a breakthrough for image recognition tasks, lend
and Allegro. For each, it specifies architecture type, key features themselves to periodic systems through the adaptation of electron
(e.g., rotational invariance, many-body expansion), typical accuracy density maps or charge densities generated from DFT calculations.
(MAE relative to DFT), computational cost, and best-suited Graph neural networks (GNNs) such as message-passing neural
applications (e.g., high-entropy alloys, oxide surfaces, large-scale networks, graph convolutional networks, and graph attention
interfaces). This table complements the algorithmic discussion by networks operate directly on atomic structures and learn to
focusing specifically on potentials used for atomistic simulations, propagate information through neighbour graphs in order to
helping researchers select the right tool for tasks like adsorption predict properties at a global, atomic, or bond level (Resasco
energy prediction or molecular dynamics. et al., 2022). During this period, ML has emerged as a powerful
Figure 6shows representative machine learning workflows used tool to model heterogeneous catalysis, particularly in the form of so-
for the rational design and optimization of alloy electrocatalysts for called neural network potential energy surfaces, which capture the
the hydrogeneration reaction. They show how the combination of local chemical surroundings that determine catalytic activity and
descriptor engineering, graph-type structural representations, and yield homogenous DFT-like accuracy for adsorbate energies over
machine learning models with the help of soap can facilitate the replicates of slightly different surface structures. In this domain, the
identification of catalytically active alloy compositions and Open Catalyst project has accelerated progress significantly by
adsorption sites at a faster pace. Subfigure (a) illustrates the providing standardized benchmarks and large-scale datasets.
linkages among structural description, geometric structure, and Graph neural network architectures—CGCNN, SchNet,
electronic description and the combination of these with density DimeNet++, and later variants—systematically enhanced energy
functional theory-based adsorption energetics. Subfigure (b) and force predictions, where larger models outperformed smaller
illustrates an iterative active-site optimisation process for ones (Chanussot et al., 2021). However, this brute-force data-scaling
identifying active sites in Pd-based alloys. The remarkable ability approach may still require further advances in architecture to
of graph representations and machine learning-assisted screening to accomplish chemical accuracy (≈0.05 eV) of adsorption energies
encode the local coordination environment and to identify across disparate materials.
favourable adsorption configurations in complex multi-metallic Graph neural networks (GNNs) have a fundamental
catalyst systems is further highlighted in subfigures (c) and (d). operating principle and predictive ability in materials
Frontiers in Chemistry 10 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
FIGURE 6
Alloy optimization and screening for hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). (a) Process of descriptor generation and machine learning-based prediction
of the energetics of hydrogen adsorption in binary and ternary alloy systems, including descriptors related to structure, electronic structure, and
coordination. (b) Development of a machine-learning-based model to find optimal adsorption sites and atomic structures of Pd-Ni-Cu alloy catalysts. (c)
A representation of doped catalyst structures based on graphs that can be used to learn local atomic environments and their adsorption behaviour.
(d) For multi-metallic Cu-based alloy nanoclusters, with near-thermoneutral hydrogen binding energies, predict optimal hydrogen adsorption sites (Ding
R. et al., 2024).
informatics and electrocatalysis applications, as shown in their ability to predict catalyst properties from the catalyst’s
Figure 7. Subfigure (a) illustrates the message-passing model structure and composition.
employed, in which the local atomic environment is represented Example of diagram of a GNN message passing framework.
as an atomic feature and propagated from neighbouring nodes Represents how neighboring atoms (such as types of elements, bond
and edges to model a chemically meaningful representation of distances) will be recursively added and modified to generate
the local environment. This allows GNNs to learn structural, predictions of properties at the atomic level or for the entire
geometric, and electronic interactions directly from atomic molecule. The figure uncovers the “black box” aspect of GNN by
configurations without requiring manually designed clearly showing the information flow, and it is directly connected
descriptors. To demonstrate this evolution, Figure (b) shows with the explanation provided in the text regarding how GNNs learn
the predictive accuracy of several advanced GNN models on chemical environments. The model-driven design for catalysis is one
several molecular properties, where the accuracy of graph-based of the leading new applications of ML in the field of catalyst design.
deep learning models keeps improving as they become more Learning the underlying distribution of crystal structures from
complex. The structures highlight the increasing relevance of training on such stable structures allows generative models, such
message-passing neural networks as an effective method for as variational autoencoders, GANs, and diffusion models, to
catalyst property prediction and materials discovery, given synthesize materials with desired properties without the need to
Frontiers in Chemistry 11 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
FIGURE 7
Use of message passing and prediction accuracy for molecular and crystalline materials modelling using graph neural networks. (a) Schematic
picture of the message-passing operation in graph neural networks, showing the iterative exchange of information between neighbouring atomic
environments in molecular and crystalline systems. (b) Comparative evaluation of the performances of state-of-the-art graph neural network
architectures on predicting molecular electronic properties like energy, HOMO and LUMO energies (Reiser et al., 2022).
TABLE 5 Machine learning algorithms for electrocatalyst design source (Chen et al., 2025; Li et al., 2023; Wang S.-H. et al., 2021; Zhou et al., 2026).
Algorithm class Representative models Key strengths Limitations Typical applications
Interpretable Models Linear regression, decision trees, High interpretability, low data Limited capacity for complex, Descriptor discovery, design
symbolic regression requirements, fast training non-linear relationships rule extraction
Ensemble Methods Random forest, XGBoost, Good balance of accuracy and Less effective for complex Property prediction, feature
LightGBM, CatBoost interpretability, handles tabular data structural data importance ranking
well
Graph Neural Networks CGCNN, SchNet, DimeNet++, Learns directly from atomic Black-box, high data demand, Adsorption energy prediction,
(GNNs) GemNet, MEGNet structure, high accuracy computationally intensive virtual screening
Generative Models VAE, GAN, diffusion models, Inverse design, de novo structure Requires careful conditioning, New alloy/perovskite
LLMs generation, novelty exploration synthesizability gap generation, multi-objective
design
Physics-Informed Neural PINN variants, concept bottleneck Embeds domain knowledge, Complex architecture design, Stability forecasting, Pourbaix
Networks (PINNs) models physically consistent predictions training challenges diagram prediction
forward screen (Zhou et al., 2026). These models, when paired with such as the random forest and the XGBoost; graph neural
property predictors and optimisation algorithms, can suggest new networks, such as CGCNN and SchNet; generative models,
compositions and structures that meet multiple design targets such as the variational autoencoder (VAE), the generative
(activity, stability, cost, and synthesizability). adversarial network (GAN), and diffusion models; and physics-
In Table 5, we summarize the key families of ML methods that informed neural networks (PINNs). The table shows the strengths
can be applied to electrocatalyst design: interpretable models, and limitations of each class: interpretability, accuracy, inverse
such as linear regression and decision trees; ensemble models, design and data demand, opacity and complexity, respectively.
Frontiers in Chemistry 12 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
For readers, it is a convenient tool to follow the path of the choices enhance extrapolation beyond the training sets, reduce data
that are given in the body of the text starting from quick (fast) requirements, and increase physical consistency. However,
descriptor mining and reaching the black box deep learning. their implementation remains computationally challenging and
When employing one algorithm in predictive scenarios over must be carefully formulated with physical constraints
another, in addition to predictive performance, one should governing it.
consider the need for interpretability, computational costs, and
uncertainty quantification. On one extreme there are simple 3.5 Explainable artificial intelligence for
models or decision trees that are easy to follow and can only catalyst design
capture limited concepts, and on the other extreme there are high-
capacity deep networks that attain to higher accuracy, but a With the growing complexity of machine learning models, the
corresponding loss of transparency. PINNs directly embed the importance of model interpretability is increasing as well,
physics knowledge into the architecture or loss function of the alongside prediction accuracy. Explainable Artificial
network, which is how they can be made interpretable without Intelligence (XAI) offers tools to identify the physicochemical
compromising deep learning capabilities (Wang S. et al., 2021). factors underlying model predictions and allows one to gain
Similarly, Bayesian methods and ensemble approaches yield scientific insight beyond the mere predictions themselves.
natural uncertainty measures which can help guide Methods that assign importance to each feature, such as SHAP
experimental testing to promising candidates, provide a way (SHapley Additive exPlanations) and Local Interpretable Model-
for the researcher to gain confidence in the model at any time, agnostic Explanations (LIME), quantify the relative importance of
and help inform regions of chemical space that may lead to new features such as d-band centre, electronegativity, coordination
opportunities. Note that there is now a rise in many architectures, number, adsorption energy, and crystal symmetry in determining
and therefore, all other parts of the training process. The most the predicted catalytic performance. These approaches allow
effective methods combine several of the above, such as using researchers to determine the main descriptors of the catalyst
graph neural networks to encode the structure, transferring and to check the machine-learning predictions against known
knowledge from related data sets, using active learning to electrochemical principles. GNNExplainer and attention
gradually select most informative examples as training data, visualisation are methods used to identify catalytically active
and employing multi-objective optimisation to address atomic environments responsible for predicted adsorption
conflicting design objectives. The immense toolbox can be used energies in GNNs. These methods can greatly enhance the
to search and optimise electrocatalysts for sustainable energy reliability of deep learning models and help to design catalysts
applications considerably faster when used judiciously. more rationally by uncovering new structure–property
relationships. The emerging symbolic regression methods also
3.4 Critical comparison of machine learning enhance interpretability by developing explicit mathematical
approaches for electrocatalyst discovery models that relate catalyst descriptors to electrocatalytic
activity. These interpretable models could someday connect the
In addition to traditional reviews that primarily provide an dots between the traditional descriptor-based approach to catalyst
overview of algorithmic advances, assessing the practical viability design, and modern deep learning.
of various machine learning methods for catalyst discovery is
crucial. Classical machine learning algorithms like Random Forest
4 Strategic applications of ML across
(RF), Support Vector Machines (SVM) and Gradient Boosting
the catalyst lifecycle
Machines (GBM) typically work well with relatively small data
sets, because they have a good tolerance of overfitting and can
identify important descriptors that govern catalytic activity. All In the case of electrocatalyst R&D, the machine learning
those techniques, however, rely heavily on artificially designed techniques are especially appropriate as they can be used to
descriptors and do not capture complex atomic interactions in guide the process of discovery, mechanistic understanding,
heterogeneous catalyst systems. To address many of these synthetic realisation, and performance benchmarking at all the
challenges, deep learning models, notably Graph Neural stages of the overall process. This integration is aimed at
Networks (GNNs), can be trained directly from crystal promoting rational design and utilization of highly efficient,
structure, thereby avoiding the need for handcrafted durable catalysts for important electrocatalytic processes (Guo
descriptors to learn atomic environments. They are good at et al., 2024; Salami et al., 2025).
predicting adsorption energies and catalytic activities across A representative list of six electrocatalyst discoveries using ML
large chemical spaces due to their ability to model local is provided in Table 6, and these discoveries have been
coordination, electronic interactions, and surface geometries. successfully validated in the lab. The entries include a
However, GNNs place significant demands on data size, description of the catalyst system, target reaction (HER/OER),
training time, and computational resources. Moreover, they are ML approach (random forest + Bayesian optimisation, GNN +
black-box models: although they perform well at prediction, there high-throughput screening, etc.), key finding, measured
is not necessarily a scientific understanding of this type of model. performance (overpotential, stability, mass activity), and
Combining electrochemical constraints into model training by citation. This table, which appears just before Section 4.1,
physics-informed neural networks or hybrid ML-DFT shows the practical impact of ML in real applications, from
frameworks can offer an attractive compromise. These methods high-entropy RuO (1500 h stability) to ternary Pt alloys (8×
2
Frontiers in Chemistry 13 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
TABLE 6 Representative ML-driven electrocatalyst discoveries with experimental validation.
Catalyst system Target ML approach Key finding Experimentally validated References
reaction performance
NiFe-LDH with dopants OER (alkaline) Random forest + Bayesian Identified Cr and Mo as optimal Overpotential ~220 mV @ Xu S. et al.
optimization co-dopants 10 mA cm−2, stability >500 h (2024)
High-entropy RuO2 OER (acidic) Graph neural network + Multi-cation synergy prevents Overpotential ~180 mV @ Qian et al. (2023)
high-throughput screening Ru dissolution 10 mA cm−2, 1,500 h stability
Ternary Pt-alloys (Pt- HER (acidic) Symbolic regression + Optimal composition: Mass activity 8× higher than Pt/C Cao et al. (2025)
Pd-Au) volcano mapping Pt45Pd35Au20
Perovskite oxides (BaxSr1- OER (alkaline) Transfer learning + GNN Ba0.5Sr0.5Co0.8Fe0.2O3 Overpotential ~320 mV @ Jiang et al. (2021)
xCo_yFe1-γO3) identified as optimal 10 mA cm−2
Single-atom catalysts HER (all pH) Descriptor-based ML + DFT Fe-N4-C with axial OH ligand ΔG_H ≈ −0.05 eV, near-Pt activity Li (2022)
(M-N-C, M = Fe, Co, Ni) screening predicted
High-entropy alloys (Cr- OER (alkaline) Multi-objective Bayesian Equimolar composition with Overpotential ~260 mV @ Xu S. et al.
Mn-Fe-Co-Ni) optimization 5% Mo addition 10 mA cm−2 (2024)
higher activity than Pt/C), thereby rooting the ensuing strategic 4.1.1 High-throughput discovery of novel alloys,
discussions in tangible applications. perovskites, and SACs
4.1 Activity prediction and virtual screening The engine behind modern materials discovery is high-
throughput computational screening combined with quantum-
The most developed use of these machine learning techniques is mechanical approaches. Machine learning (ML) models trained
the prediction of catalytic activity from materials descriptors; on DFT calculations can predict important properties such as
normally, a compositional database contains millions of potential adsorption energies, formation energies, band gaps over
materials, and high-throughput screening of these is only possible if compositional spaces so large that full ab initio exploration is still
they can be predicted as catalysts. Instead of having to analyze and a daunting task, intractable by brute-force (Oh et al., 2024). This
characterize several thousand materials experimentally, the ML capability is transformative for high-entropy alloys: ML models
models allow virtual screening that is, consider millions of traverse the near-infinite combinatorial space of multi-metallic
candidates in silico, but focus experiments on the most promising compositions, uncovering candidates that defy conventional
ones (Schrier et al., 2023). scaling relations and display unprecedented activity (Xu W. et al.,
As shown in Figure 8, a comprehensive framework for high- 2024). Incorporation of computationally verified structural models
throughput screening and optimisation of Hydrogen Evolution into active learning workflows reduces the need to rely on purely ab
Reaction (HER) electrocatalysts using a machine learning initio methods by orders of magnitude (Lan et al., 2023), while
approach is presented. A comprehensive framework for high- predictions are iteratively improved.
throughput screening and optimization of Hydrogen Evolution ML models predict band edge positions and optical absorption
Reaction (HER) electrocatalysts by a machine learning approach spectra for perovskite oxides to direct the discovery of photocatalysts
is demonstrated in Figure 8. Subfigure (a): Combination of for solar-driven water splitting (Oh et al., 2024). First-principles
graph neural network architectures, structural descriptors and calculations revealed that perovskite materials can possess a
the adsorption energetics from a density functional theory favourable band gap and align right between the conduction
calculation for quick prediction of catalytic activity for band of water oxidation and the valence band of water reduction
complex multi-element alloy systems. (b) Shows the for overall water splitting. Likewise, for single-atom catalysts, ML
automated workflow to build adsorption databases and train models traverse the expansive design space of metal centres,
machine learning potentials to speed up structural optimization coordination environments, and supports to deliver hydrogen
and energy calculations of adsorption. The adsorption-energy adsorption free energies at near-Density Functional Theory
landscape visualization in (c) shows how dimensionality- (DFT) accuracy and identify systems with comparable or
reduction techniques can be used to identify clusters of superior performance to platinum (Li et al., 2023; Wang C.
promising catalyst candidates with near-optimal hydrogen et al., 2025).
adsorption behavior, and (d) statistically maps the The full machine learning approach to the idealized engineering
distribution of adsorption energies to pick out the of descriptors and fast discovery of MXene derived electrocatalysts
thermoneutral HER-active surfaces. Together, the figure for the hydrogen evolution reaction is illustrated in Figure 9. The
showcases a dramatic decrease in computational requirements pristine and transition-metal-modified MXene systems are
and thus the speed of exploring the vast compositional space of engineered to optimize the hydrogen adsorption properties by
catalysts by machine learning, allowing the discovery of efficient structural tuning, as shown in subfigures (a–c). The integrated
electrocatalysts. workflow concept is expanded in subsection (d) to include high-
Frontiers in Chemistry 14 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
FIGURE 8
(a) Machine learning workflow for multi-element electrocatalyst screening via descriptor engineering, gNN models and density functional theory
(DFT) derived adsorption energetics. (b) Stable structure selection, adsorption site generation, training adsorption energy machine learning potentials and
prediction steps of building a high-throughput adsorption database, and an iterative optimisation pipeline. (c) Distributed stochastic neighbours
embedding (t-SNE) visualisation of the adsorption-energy landscapes for each alloy surface analysed to identify candidate regions for structures with
hypothetical optimal hydrogen adsorption energy. (d) Statistical distribution of hydrogen adsorption energies (ΔEh) of screened surfaces with
identification of near-thermoneutral HER-active catalyst candidates (Ding R. et al., 2024).
throughput computation, electronic structure theory and machine performing MXene catalysts with near-optimal hydrogen-
learning to generate descriptors and to screen catalysts. Subfigures adsorption energetics. The figure shows the overall picture of
(e–g) test the predictive power of several regression models for how descriptor-driven machine learning frameworks could
hydrogen adsorption free energies as a function of the structural increase the speed of rational catalyst design without
descriptors; in subfigure (h), we focus on the use of symbolic compromising on the mechanistic interpretability. An ML-
regression for deducing interpretable physicochemical descriptors assisted screening pipeline is enabled for hydrogen-evolution
that govern the catalytic activity. Lastly, subfigures (i–l) demonstrate catalysts. It begins with the engineering of descriptors (d-band
the reliability of the newly derived descriptors in predicting high- centre, electronegativity, etc.), which then go through a workflow
Frontiers in Chemistry 15 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
FIGURE 9
Machine learning-assisted descriptor engineering and screening of MXene-based HER electrocatalysts. (a–c) Atomic structures of pristine and
transition-metal-modified MXene systems illustrating adsorption-site configurations and compositional engineering strategies. (d) Integrated high-
throughput computational and machine learning framework for descriptor discovery, catalyst screening, and hydrogen adsorption prediction in MXene
electrocatalysts. (e–g) Performance evaluation of multiple regression models for predicting hydrogen adsorption free energy (ΔGh), including
feature selection, correlation analysis, and model validation metrics. (h) Symbolic learning workflow for identifying interpretable catalyst descriptors from
electronic and structural parameters. (i–l) Validation and screening of newly designed MXene catalysts using machine learning-predicted adsorption
energetics and descriptor-guided optimization (Li et al., 2023).
Frontiers in Chemistry 16 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
that includes model training, prediction of ΔG_H or overpotential, It highlights how graph neural networks can learn correlations
and experimental validation. The figure provides a practical HER between crystallography, composition, and dissolution potential,
example that connects general screening considerations to a enabling long-term stability forecasts without exhaustive lifetime
concrete case, illustrating the efficient screening of low- testing. This figure directly addresses the gap between activity and
dimensional catalysts (e.g., SACs, 2D materials). practical durability.
4.1.2 Predicting multi-functional activity for overall 4.2.1 Modelling dissolution, phase transformation,
water splitting and surface reconstruction
ML can also predict not only the catalytic performance of a Harsh electrochemical environments, such as those found in
single reaction but also materials that are optimal for both HER and water electrolysis (e.g., under highly acidic or alkaline electrolytes,
OER, meeting the requirements for effective overall water splitting. oxidizing potentials, and elevated temperatures), activate several
This necessitates models that maximize multiple catalytic degradation pathways. As a result, catalyst dissolution leaches
descriptors at once through the identification of bifunctional active metals into the electrolyte, gradually deactivating the
materials with the ability to operate robustly across different electrode. Active surface structures are phase-transformed to
electrochemical conditions encountered at the cathode and anode inactive forms. Surface reconstruction enables atomic-level
(Li et al., 2023). rearrangement, thereby modulating active-site populations and
Multi-objective optimization frameworks incorporate binding energetics. Models using operando characterization data
independent predictors of HER and OER activity, balancing the for machine learning can also predict susceptibility to these
trade-off between these two half-reactions to identify compositions degradation mechanisms (Zhang H. et al., 2024). Graph neural
that can lead to optimal performance. Such approaches have led to networks learn the crystallography of a metal oxygen bond and its
the identification of bifunctionally active transition metal composition to find associations with dissolution potential. This
phosphides and chalcogenides, with activities approaching enables identification of vulnerable sites that are likely to cleave at
precious metal benchmarks (Ding R. et al., 2024). For example, anodic conditions. In the case of high-entropy alloys, ML models
graph neural networks trained on datasets containing both half- predict how surface composition determines resistance to
reactions learn joint representations that reflect the underlying leaching and passivation (Wang C. et al., 2025). Using direct
electronic descriptors controlling both HER and OER, thereby state inputs, time-series models trained on extensive electrolysis
indirectly enabling prediction of overall water-splitting data predict performance trajectories, enabling the identification
performance from composition alone. of failing catalysts long before expensive long-term testing. Most
stable catalysts now exhibit extraordinary stabilities, e.g., high-
4.2 Stability and durability forecasting entropy RuO - based systems have managed continuous
2
operation of over 1,500 h at 100 mA cm−2 without significant
Activity predictions alone are insufficient for practical catalyst degradation, directly tackling concerns regarding OER stability
development; only long-term stability under realistic conditions can (Qian et al., 2025) broadly shared by many conventional OER
validate a catalyst’s commercial prospects. Recent solutions to this electrocatalysts. Machine-learning (ML) analysis reveals that
challenge are based on machine learning models that predict cooperative interactions among multiple cations stabilise active
degradation mechanisms and durability throughout the Ru sites, preventing the over-oxidation and dissolution pathways
catalyst lifecycle. that rapidly deactivate pure RuO .
2
Figure 10 illustrates the application of machine learning
methodologies for predicting stability, compositional evolution, 4.2.2 Limitations of static machine learning models
and electrocatalytic performance in high-entropy alloy (HEA) for long-term stability prediction
systems. Subfigure (a) demonstrates the use of machine learning-
assisted Monte Carlo simulations to optimize nanoparticle atomic While GNNs have been trained on static crystal structures with
arrangements and identify energetically favorable configurations. great success to predict adsorption energies and catalytic activity,
Subfigure (b) presents a stability-analysis workflow in which long-term catalyst durability is much more difficult. Electrochemical
machine learning-derived interatomic potentials are employed to degradation is a dynamic physicochemical phenomenon, which
model surface atom dissolution and structural evolution under encompasses surface reconstruction, lattice distortion, dissolution
catalytic operating conditions. Subfigure (c) compares machine of cations, migration of defects, catalyst-support interactions,
learning-predicted onset potentials with experimentally measured electrolyte effects, and morphological evolution and requires long
values across a ternary Pt–Rh–Sn compositional space, highlighting operation times.
the predictive capability of data-driven models for screening stable These time-dependent structural changes are not accounted for
and catalytically active alloy compositions. Collectively, the figure in static crystal graph representations and therefore cannot be
demonstrates how machine learning frameworks can accelerate directly predicted for the degradation of catalysts over thousands
stability forecasting and compositional optimization in complex of hours of operation. The limitations are partially overcome by
multi-element electrocatalyst systems while significantly reducing recent advances in machine-learning interatomic potentials,
computational and experimental costs. A schematic of an ML-based temporal graph neural networks, and physics-informed neural
framework that predicts degradation pathways–dissolution, surface networks, which explicitly incorporate atomic trajectories and
reconstruction, phase transformation–under operando conditions. time-dependent structural evolution as graphs.
Frontiers in Chemistry 17 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
FIGURE 10
Machine learning-driven stability prediction and compositional optimization of high-entropy alloy electrocatalysts (Ding R. et al., 2024).
4.3 Mechanistic insight and intermediates give rise to theoretical minimum overpotentials
descriptor discovery that cannot be overcome simply by surface engineering. Machine
learning provides rules to identify materials for which these scaling
In addition to prediction, machine learning provides powerful relationships do not hold, allowing separate optimization of multiple
tools for interrogating the fundamental mechanisms driving reaction intermediaries (Govindarajan et al., 2019). Again, high-
catalytic activity, highlighting hidden correlations, identifying entropy alloys prove to be exemplary: their rich local coordination
non-intuitive descriptors, and suggesting material designs that environments generate a distribution of adsorption sites suitable for
break through conventional limits. the simultaneous optimisation of the binding of distinct
intermediates. Conventional scaling between OH, O, and OOH
4.3.1 Uncovering hidden correlations and non- adsorption energies breaks down for candidates identified from
intuitive descriptors thousands of alloy compositions by ML models trained to predict
these properties (Xu S. et al., 2024). Atomically dispersed catalysts
Established descriptors like d-band centre, coordination tethered on purpose-built supports can reach nonconventional
number, and adsorption energies have been used to rationalise anchoring geometries via metal-support interactions that extend
activity trends in traditional catalysis research. Although there adsorbate bonding beyond the capabilities of three-dimensional
are challenges associated with data mining, machine learning can macroscopic surfaces.
discover new descriptors that capture previously unrecognized Figure 11 illustrates the use of accelerated exploration and
factors controlling performance (Mou L. et al., 2023; Mou T. optimization of complex multicomponent electrocatalyst systems
et al., 2023). Feature importance analysis of trained models has by machine learning and Bayesian optimization strategies. The local
shown which combinations of structural and electronic properties coordination environments and the adsorption site configurations
correlate best with catalytic outcomes, often identifying sets of in compositionally complex alloys that control catalytic activity are
features that describe catalytic activities more strongly than parameterised as shown in (a). Subfigure (b) shows machine
traditional single descriptors. learning-based analysis of adsorption-energy distributions as well
For high-entropy alloys, machine learning (ML) models trained as electrochemical polarisation behaviour and spatial activity maps
on large-scale density functional theory datasets have identified of the heterogeneous catalyst surfaces, which were used to identify
d-band filling and differences in local electronegativity that high-performance compositional domains. Subfigure (c) illustrates
enable mapping of adsorption energies to numerous active sites the process of the Bayesian optimization workflow that dynamically
(Cao et al., 2025). While traditional heuristic approaches would balances exploration and exploitation to efficiently traverse the high-
leave these subtle correlations buried beneath more complex dimensional compositional space in the least number of
interactions, such composite descriptors may reveal insights into experiments. Finally, as shown in subfigure (d), subfigure
the true multi-element synergy that governs reactivity in multi- compositional mapping of quinary alloy libraries made by co-
metallic systems. However, this is still impossible for catalysts with sputtering methods is performed to see how the automated
long-range order structures due to various degrees of disorder in experimentation and data-driven optimization are integrated in
coordination around active sites; it is well documented that the current electrocatalyst discovery. This figure highlights the
structure–property correlations fail (Wang C. et al., 2025), yet impact of machine learning on the rapid rational formulation
ML models trained on local coordination environments discover and screening of complex alloy electrocatalysts, in sharp contrast
structural motifs that correlate with activity and can thus enable to conventional trial-and-error approaches.
rational design despite structural disorder. A conceptual diagram of the ΔG_OH vs. ΔG_OOH relationship,
which shows the decoupling between the conventional linear
4.3.2 Informing the design of materials to break correlation using ML guided strategies (high entropy alloys,
scaling relations single atom catalysts and support effects). The identification of
materials with a broad adsorption energy distribution enables the
The scaling relations that limit conventional catalyst design design of catalysts with OER overpotentials below the theoretical
linear correlations between the adsorption energies of different volcano limit, a major finding of the mechanistic insight subsection.
Frontiers in Chemistry 18 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
FIGURE 11
Machine learning-guided compositional optimization and activity mapping of multicomponent electrocatalyst systems. (a) Local atomic
coordination environments used to parameterize adsorption-site configurations and nearest-neighbor interactions in complex alloy catalysts. (b)
Surface-binding energy distributions, polarization behavior, and activity maps generated for compositionally complex catalytic surfaces using machine
learning-assisted screening. (c) Bayesian optimization workflow for iterative exploration of multicomponent compositional spaces through
uncertainty-guided acquisition and activity prediction. (d) High-throughput compositional mapping of quinary alloy catalyst libraries illustrating spatial
distributions of elemental concentrations across co-sputtered electrocatalyst systems (Ding R. et al., 2024).
4.4 Synthesis pathway optimization vacancies or metal cation defects act as active sites for OER or
HER, for defect-engineered catalysts (Li et al., 2023). Bayesian
To advance the proof-of-concept synthesis to experimental optimisation then explores the high-dimensional synthesis space
production, machine learning is being used to identify efficiently, and the optimal conditions are determined after a much
correlations between processing parameters and material smaller number of experiments than an experimentalist typically
properties, thereby informing synthesis optimisation. The performs to achieve an optimal condition.
morphology, particle size distribution, and defect density of the The integrated machine learning workflow shown in Figure 12
catalysts strongly depend on the synthesis conditions (temperature, can be used to narrow down the search, screen, and validate high-
pressure, precursor concentration, heating rate, atmosphere), and entropy alloy (HEA) electrocatalysts, thereby fast-tracking the
consequently on the catalyst performance. Machine learning models electrocatalyst discovery process. Data-driven compositional
trained over synthetic–property datasets can learn such complicated design of multicomponent alloy systems is followed by
relationships, thereby aiding in rational synthetic protocol automated high-throughput synthesis of catalyst arrays through
optimization (Slautin et al., 2024). ML models can also be used precursor-printing strategies. Finally, scanning electrochemical
to forecast how changes in synthesis parameters affect the size cell microscopy is used to perform rapid intrinsic activity
distribution, shape, and exposed facets of nanoparticle catalysts, screening, efficiently obtaining a large electrochemical data set.
all of which influence the availability of active sites and catalyst These experimental results are then fed into ensemble machine
selectivity. Relationships between annealing conditions and vacancy learning models such as random forests, gradient boosting,
concentration and type help to design materials where oxygen XGBoost, and neural networks to accurately predict activity
Frontiers in Chemistry 19 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
FIGURE 12
Machine learning-assisted high-throughput workflow for accelerated discovery and validation of high-entropy alloy electrocatalysts (i) Selection and
optimization of high-entropy alloy elemental compositions using data-driven and machine learning-guided design strategies. (ii) High-throughput
synthesis of compositionally diverse high-entropy alloy catalyst libraries through automated precursor printing approaches. (iii) Rapid electrochemical
screening of intrinsic catalytic activity using scanning electrochemical cell microscopy (SECCM). (iv) Construction of electrocatalytic activity
databases using ensemble machine learning models, including random forest, gradient boosting, XGBoost, and neural network frameworks. (v)
Experimental transfer validation of machine learning-recommended high-performance electrocatalyst candidates (Jin et al., 2025).
across a set of activity databases, thereby providing optimal catalyst 4.5 Inverse design
compositions. Lastly, machine learning-recommended
electrocatalysts are benchmarked against experiments using The pinnacle of artificial intelligence in materials discovery is
validated transfer learning methods. Overall, the figure illustrates inverse design: defining target performance metrics and generating
how the combination of automation, multi-scale experimentation candidate material structures de novo, without forward screening of
and machine learning significantly reduces catalyst optimization the existing candidates.
and discovery times for complex alloy systems. An AI-assisted
optimization loop linking synthesis parameters (temperature, 4.5.1 Generative models for de novo catalyst
precursor ratio, heating rate) to catalyst morphology (particle design from target properties
size, defect density) and ultimately to electrocatalytic
performance. The figure shows how Bayesian optimization and Generative machine learning models (like variational
active learning navigate high-dimensional synthesis spaces to find autoencoders, generative adversarial networks, and diffusion
optimal protocols with far fewer experiments, bridging the models) learn the underlying distribution of stable crystal
computational-experimental divide. structures from high-throughput datasets of known materials.
Once trained, these models can then create new structures
4.4.1 Guiding the synthesis of predicted materials conditioned on target properties: generate a crystal structure with
a target adsorption energy, band gap, or formation energy (Zhou
The distance between computationally predicted candidates and et al., 2026). For electrocatalyst design, generative models
experimentally obtainable materials is often quite large. Massively conditioned on target ΔGH values can suggest new compositions
parallel screening of high-throughput synthesis outcomes from the and structures predicted to exhibit optimal hydrogen binding. These
literature with ML models can predict whether a composition and candidates are often produced that strays significantly from known
structure can be synthesized using conditions within reach families of materials, probing chemical spaces that traditional
(Szymanski et al., 2023). These predictors of synthesizability intuition would never venture into. Property predictors then
enable filtering of results from computational screening, allowing assess the generated candidates, and the most promising of these
prioritisation of candidates likely to be amenable to experimental proceed to downstream validation via DFT calculations, synthesis,
access. Autonomous synthesis platforms now close the loop: robotic and testing. High-entropy alloys offer a particularly rich target of
systems execute ML-recommended synthesis protocols and generative design: the enormous compositional space cannot be
characterize products, relaying results back to continuously refine exhaustively mined, yet generative models can suggest multi-
models (Zhu et al., 2023). These self-driving laboratories run metallic compositions that are expected to yield optimum
continuously, exploring synthesis spaces and optimizing protocols combinations of adsorption energies for multiple intermediates
at orders of magnitude faster than human-driven experimentation. (Wang C. et al., 2025). Combined with synthesizability predictors
Such platforms have identified optimum synthesized conditions for and automated synthesis platforms, generative models hold the
newly predicted high-entropy alloy compositions, driving the potential to achieve the long-desired goal of rational materials
computational catalyst predictions to catalysis. design in the truest sense, beginning with performance
Frontiers in Chemistry 20 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
specifications and concluding with experimentally validated confirmation. This synergy of DFT-grounded ML predictions and
catalysts that meet them. This framework, which capitalizes on experiments can be integrated into a multi-fidelity optimization
the synergy between activity prediction, stability forecasting, loop, which can then use speed with precision.
mechanistic insight, synthesis optimization, and inverse design,
will define the new paradigm of ML-accelerated discovery of 5.2 Physics-informed neural networks:
electrocatalysts. By inter-looping computation and experiment, embedding domain knowledge
prediction and validation, this approach holds the potential to
accelerate the discovery of sustainable energy technologies by As good as purely data-driven neural networks are at prediction,
orders of magnitude. they also tend to violate elementary physical laws, such as energy
conservation, thermodynamic consistency, and rotational
invariance, leading to predictions that are numerically inaccurate
5 The closed loop: integrating ML with
and physically impossible. A physics-informed method using neural
computation and experiment
networks bypasses this limitation by directly embedding knowledge
of the governing equation into either the model architecture or the
However, the most powerful impacts of machine learning in loss function (Wang S.-H. et al., 2021). The Governing equations
electrocatalysis arise not from isolated predictions but from (Schrödinger equation, Poisson–Boltzmann relations, and
synergistic combinations of ML and computational simulations, reaction–diffusion kinetics) are embedded as soft constraints
along with experimental validation. This iterative cycle of designing during PINN training for electrocatalysis applications. For
optimal experiments for discovery, followed by deploying improved instance, a PINN trained to predict adsorption energies may
mechanistic understanding to continuously feed predictive models minimize error with respect to DFT data while simultaneously
with minimal human cognition required, creates orders-of- satisfying consistency conditions: e.g., that the energy of a system
magnitude circumventing intermediating models from should be invariant under rotations, or that adsorption energies for
psychophysical predictions after reconciliation, through an related intermediates obey physically motivated scaling relations
accelerated hypothesis generation workflow, and in alignment (Omranpour et al., 2025). This physics-based rationale leads to fewer
(Tom et al., 2024). data requirements, enhanced extrapolation to out-of-distribution
candidates, and ensures that the resulting predictions are physically
5.1 The AI-guided workflow: prediction → meaningful at least for those areas of chemical space that are
validation → learning underrepresented in the training set. In a study utilizing
electrochemical thermodynamics as background knowledge, the
Three interconnected stages of a closed-loop workflow. First, PINN method produces more accurate dissolution potentials and
machine learning models are trained on historical data, and Pourbaix boundaries than purely data-driven methods for
predictions are made across large chemical spaces to identify predicting electrocatalyst stability (Zhang H. et al., 2024).
candidate materials that meet performance objectives. Properties. Incorporating the Nernst equation and transition-state theory as
This enables high-velocity, iterative experimental campaigns based loss functions, these models will be governed by the fundamental
on these predictions that focus synthesis and characterisation efforts relationships between potential, pH, and stability that drive the
on the most promising candidates, rather than on random or degradation of materials in catalysis. Despite learning solely
heuristic searches. And finally, test results whether they are in experimental data from a small subset of each relevant
accord (or variance) with predictions–become part of model environment, the resulting predictions remain robust over very
training so that predictive accuracy can be refined incrementally different environments at the electrolyte level.
and iteratively, and the domain of trustworthy inference expanded
(Wang W. et al., 2023). This iterative fine-tuning proves very useful 5.3 Active learning and Bayesian
when dealing with complex and high-dimensional design spaces. optimization for efficient exploration
Early-stage models using sparse data may exhibit high uncertainty or
consistent bias. Each iteration provides a new set of training samples, The chemical space of potential electrocatalysts is effectively
labelled to address any gaps the model may have at that point, and infinite, and exhaustive exploration can never become feasible, no
active learning-based algorithms select which experiments to run to matter how many computational resources one may throw at the
maximise their potential to improve the model’s performance. Over problem. Both active learning and Bayesian optimization offer
successive cycles, the combined approach converged on superior approaches to selectively search this space, allowing the model to
materials much more rapidly than is possible alone using choose which candidates are most informative (Deshmukh et al.,
computation or experimentation (Rodríguez-Martínez et al., 2024) for evaluation at each step. Active learning algorithms strike a
2021). The integration of Density Functional Theory calculations balance between exploration of regions of chemical space where
is an added workflow to this method. An alternative approach can be uncertainty in the model is high and exploitation, descent on
taken to train ML models on large DFT datasets, allowing them to predicted optimal material regions. This balance, learnt by itself
learn how much quantum-chemical accuracy they achieve with using uncertainty quantification from ensemble methods, Bayesian
minimal computational cost (Chen et al., 2025), rather than neural networks, or Gaussian processes lead us to the right
relying solely on costly, long-running methods based on candidates where acquiring more data would best improve model
experimental data. The ML surrogates process millions of robustness. For high-entropy alloy discovery, orders-of-magnitude
candidates but take only the most promising on to experimental savings in the total number of required DFT calculations have been
Frontiers in Chemistry 21 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
achieved using active-learning workflows to identify stable and applications. The automated microscale precursor-printing and
active compositions with minimal computational cost (Lan et al., rapid joule-heating synthesis method (subfigures b-i and b-ii)
2023). Bayesian optimization generalizes this principle to provide a fast and precise method to build an alloy library with
continuous parameter spaces, synthesis conditions, composition customized thermal processing parameters, while ensuring
ratios, processing variables, and expensive objective function scalable fabrication. Together with the scanning electron
evaluation (catalyst performance). A model (a probabilistic microscopy and the elemental mapping displayed on subfigure
surrogate model, usually a Gaussian process) is constructed to (b-iii), the resulting HEA particles are characterized, verifying the
represent the relationship between parameters and performance. uniformity of the particles in terms of composition and formation
An acquisition function is then used to choose the next set of of the particles’ microstructure at the microscale. In subfigures
parameters to evaluate, balancing between exploring uncertain areas (c-i)–(c-iv), high-throughput electrochemical evaluation is
and exploiting areas predicted to contain optima (Slautin et al., performed by performing parallel screening, polarization
2024). In the case of optimizing synthesis protocols, temperature, measurements and activity heatmap; high-performance catalyst
heating rate, and precursor concentration, Bayesian optimization compositions are identified quickly. Together, these figures
finds optimal conditions in far fewer experiments than tried-and- illustrate the dramatic power of combining automated
true design-of-experiments approaches. Multi-objective Bayesian materials synthesis, parallel electrochemical characterisation,
optimization generalizes this framework for problems with and artificial intelligence to greatly improve the discovery and
competing objectives: maximizing activity while minimizing cost, optimisation of catalysts within complex compositional spaces.
balancing HER and OER performance, and optimizing both activity High-throughput electrochemical testing; data incorporated into
and stability. Identifying a Pareto front illustrates the space of a high-throughput, autonomous discovery platform: ML
optimal trade-offs, which plays an important role in allowing prediction, robotic synthesis, automated characterisation (XRD,
researchers to select candidates that align with application- SEM, TEM), retraining ML. The figure is a representation of self-
specific priorities (Xu S. et al., 2024). driving labs, and the whole design, build, test workflow is
automated, further speeding up discovery by magnitudes.
5.4 Toward autonomous (self-driving) Robotic platforms perform synthesis protocols with higher
laboratories precision and reproducibility than humans can achieve. Liquid-
handling robots dispense precursor solutions with microliter
The combination of machine learning, robotics, and high- precision, automated high-throughput furnaces manage heating
throughput experimentation has now ushered in the era of fully profiles with second-scale timing, and robotic arms shuffle
autonomous discovery platforms consisting of self-driving samples between synthesis, characterization, and testing stations
laboratories that completely close the cycle between prediction continuously (Zhu et al., 2023). These platforms discover
and validation without human involvement (Tom et al., 2024). electrocatalysts by synthesizing libraries of compositionally
Table 7 A comparative overview of five autonomous (self- graded materials—thin-film composition spreads, nanoparticle
driving) laboratory platforms: Robotic Chemist (Liverpool), arrays, and ink-jet printed electrode arrays that allow systematic
CRESt (CMU/Toronto), AI-Robot Chemist (USTC), A-Lab probing of multinary systems. These libraries are screened in parallel
(Berkeley), and Ada (Toronto). For each, it lists institution, key via high-throughput electrochemical testing. Droplet cells,
capabilities (robotic synthesis, multimodal characterization, closed- multichannel potentiators, and some optical screening
loop control), throughput (~50–200 experiments/samples per day), methodologies measure activity, stability, and selectivity (Stevens
ML integration level (Bayesian optimization, active learning, et al., 2022) in the hundreds to thousands of samples daily.
multimodal learning), and demonstrated application (OER Automated pipelines for data analysis extract performance
catalysts, novel inorganic materials, etc.). This table directly metrics, such as overpotential at specific current density, Tafel
supports the section’s narrative by showing how ML, robotics, slopes, stability indices, and pipeline results directly back into
and high-throughput experimentation are being integrated into ML retraining without any human data curation and also
fully autonomous discovery cycles. close the loop.
5.4.1 Robotic synthesis and high-throughput 5.4.2 Case studies of successful closed-loop
electrochemical testing discovery campaigns
Figure 13 shows an integrated artificial intelligence-driven Now the first closed-loop demonstrations of autonomous
approach to high-throughput accelerated discovery and discovery in electrocatalysis have emerged, providing validation
optimization of high-entropy alloy (HEA) electrocatalysts, for the closed-loop paradigm (Burger et al., 2020) that detailed an
where the large language models are used to search for autonomous system for discovering photocatalytic hydrogen
relevant literature, automated synthetic protocol generation production catalysts, achieving in days what would have taken
facilitates synthesis, and electrochemical screening provides the months or years of human-directed experimentation. It used a
fundamental data to pinpoint the most suitable HEA mix of Bayesian optimization to select candidate compositions,
electrocatalysts. Subfigure (a) illustrates the use of a large robotic synthesis to create samples, and automated photoreactors
language model to extract both knowledge and objects from to screen performance, going through iteration after iteration
scientific literature, select candidates for a system, and produce without human involvement. Other successful technologies have
compositional, different HEA systems for electrocatalytic incorporated multimodal data chemical compositions, text
Frontiers in Chemistry 22 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
TABLE 7 Comparison of autonomous (self-driving) laboratory platforms for electrocatalyst discovery.
Platform Institution Key capabilities Throughput ML integration Demonstrated References
name level application
Robotic Chemist University of Mobile robot, liquid ~100 experiments/day Bayesian optimization, Photocatalytic hydrogen Burger et al.
(Burger lab) Liverpool handling, synthesis, active learning production catalysts (2020)
characterization
CRESt (Robotic Carnegie Mellon/ Multimodal ~200 samples/day Knowledge-assisted Multi-element OER Zhang Z. et al.
platform) University of (composition, Bayesian optimization, catalysts (high-entropy (2025)
Toronto microscopy, multimodal learning oxides)
electrochemistry)
AI-Robot Chemist University of Robotic synthesis, in- ~50 experiments/day Machine learning OER catalysts from Zhu et al. (2023)
(Martian catalyst) Science and situ characterization, prediction + robotic Martian meteorites for
Technology of closed-loop execution ISRU
China
A-Lab Lawrence Berkeley Solid-state synthesis, ~100 synthesis/ Natural language Novel inorganic materials Szymanski et al.
(Berkeley Lab) National Laboratory powder X-ray characterization processing, active (structural predictions) (2023)
diffraction cycles/day learning
Ada (Self- University of Modular synthesis, Scalable (module- Probabilistic Organic semiconductors, Tom et al. (2024)
driving lab) Toronto automated testing, dependent) programming, multi- catalysts
cloud-connected fidelity optimization
embeddings from literature, microstructural images, and empirical art of electrocatalyst development to predictive
knowledge-assisted Bayesian optimization and robotic processes facilitated by automation.
automation to discover multi-element catalysts for oxygen
evolution catalysis (Zhang Z. et al., 2025) on the CRESt
6 Critical challenges and
platform. Thus, the system was able to sample complex
research frontiers
compositional spaces that were inaccessible for unimodal
approaches and discard high-entropy oxide catalysts with
activity above known materials. Importantly, the platform Despite the tremendous advances presented in this review,
autonomously executed hundreds of synthesis, characterization, leveraging machine learning to shape electrocatalyst design still
and testing cycles continuously over several weeks. Perhaps even faces daunting challenges that limit current capabilities and
more impressive was an AI-robot chemist that autonomously delineate future research trajectories. Overcoming these
synthesized and optimized oxygen-producing catalysts from limitations data constraints, transferability deficiencies, and the
Martian meteorites (Zhu et al., 2023) This game-changing interpretability versus predictive performance trade-off will
system, integrating ML-enabled prediction, robotic synthesis, ultimately determine whether ML achieves its transformative
and in situ characterization, screened thousands of potential potential or lapses into a series of category demonstrations.
catalyst formulations derived from Martian minerals and
isolated the optimal compositions for catalysis relevant to 6.1 The data challenge: scarcity, bias, and
oxygen evolution, potentially suitable for in situ resource the “small data” problem
utilization (ISRU) during Mars exploration. This work
demonstrates the potential of closed-loop discovery: The predictive power of any machine learning model is
autonomous platforms that explore and optimize materials for proportional to the amount, quality, and diversity of training data
important applications in scenarios where human intervention is it consumes. This dependency creates an unavoidable bottleneck in
infeasible due to resource limitations. electrocatalysis: data for developing transferable, accurate models of
These successes foreshadow a future in which materials cathode processes is limited, expensive to generate, and consistently
discovery becomes orders of magnitude faster. Instead of years- biased (Grajciar et al., 2018). Experimental data is costly to obtain, but
long cycles of experimentation by graduate students, closed-loop the same is true for data generated using computational techniques: it
platforms running continuously can run thousands of discovery exists in larger quantities than experimental data, though it also incurs
programs in parallel per year. Instead of sampling narrow high costs. The few advances that exist are still expensive: the tens of
compositional spaces around previously studied materials, such thousands of DFT calculations necessary to yield a high entropy alloy
systems can traverse the entire chemical universe with only ML- composition space (figure), it is still prohibitive even if resources are
guided predictions. Computation, ML, and robotics have all been better trained (Tran et al., 2023): just one DFT calculation on complex
making independent advances, but now they converge within a oxide surface can require hours or years on supercomputers. Data
common paradigm that can catalyze a transition from the from experiments are even more stringent. Due to the sensitivity of
Frontiers in Chemistry 23 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
FIGURE 13
High-throughput synthesis and screening workflow for the discovery of high-entropy alloy electrocatalysts enabled using large language models. (a)
Literature mining, elemental selection, classification and generation of quinary high-entropy alloy (HEA) compositions using the element-combination
design framework with large language models. Precursor-printing approach for writing arrays of high-entropy alloys by automated micrometre-scale
printing of precursors on conductive substrates. Rapid alloy synthesis and thermal processing using joule-heating temperature profile. (a) The image
of synthesized microscale high-entropy alloy particles was obtained with scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and (b) the elemental mapping was
performed using SEM. Electrochemical screening with high throughput (c-i) by scanning electrochemical cell microscopy (SECCM). Microscale alloy array
electrochemical evaluation by optical imaging. (c-iii) Representative polarization curves showing that the electrocatalytic performance of the alloys varies.
(c-iv) A relative activity heatmap of the best-designed high-entropy alloys for electrocatalytic reactions (Jin et al., 2025).
electrochemical measurements on electrode/electrolyte preparation as limited coverage of either oxide surfaces and/or amorphous materials
well as measurement protocols, reported overpotentials and Tafel and complex interfaces (Chanussot et al., 2021). Organizational Data
slopes can have an orders-of-magnitude differences between labs, Considerations of its Projects: Experimental data initiatives (i.e., the
making dataset aggregation difficult. What the models must be Dark Reactions Project) have included both successful and failed
learning to overcome is additional noise due to intrinsic variability outcomes, yet widespread adoption of FAIR (Findable, Accessible,
in synthesis details, such as precursor purity, heating rates or aging Interoperable, Reusable) data principles within organizational units
time (Grim et al., 2020). These patterns of scarcity are exacerbated by has been slow off the mark. Automated extraction of data from the
systemic bias. The scientific literature is skewed toward positive results literature using natural language processing has a respite, but is still
working catalysts, materials that have higher activity than relevant suboptimal: not only due to the heterogeneity of publication formats
comparison compounds and successful syntheses. Nonsensical themselves, but also because of imprecision in the naming descriptors
findings redundant representations, unvirtuous hybridizations, used to describe names, thereby threatening replicability (Suvarna
desperate syntheses have slowly slunk into the publication et al., 2023). On shorter timescales, “small data” approaches (transfer
workflow well after they need to during both the training of learning, active learning, physics-informed regularization) will be
balanced predictive models and prediction (Xu S. et al., 2024). critical. That is, you are pre-trained on high-dimensional
This causes a positive bias in published datasets, leading to ML computational datasets and then fine-tuned [on rare in vivo or
models that will err on the side of both overpredicting the CAR T-cell measurements, etc.,], thereby harnessing the best of
probability of success for an unseen candidate and underpredicting both worlds. Active learning is a way to choose the experiments
the prevalence of failure modes. that will provide us with the most information, per measurement
To tackle these issues, we must band together at the community taken. Physics-informed models have leveraged domain expertise that
level. Open-access databases like the Materials Project, OQMD, or helps inform where training examples are and are not, and in practice
Open Catalyst provide computational data at unparalleled scales, but ensures predictions are physically plausible even when data is sparse.
Frontiers in Chemistry 24 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
6.2 The transferability gap: from idealized that opacity creates tension; a very accurate model may be useful for
models to real catalysts and devices predicting activity, but if we also cannot explain why such
predictions are made, then not only does it lack contribution to
Machine learning models that derive their training from fundamental knowledge but also rational design principles (Saidi,
idealized representations clean surfaces, perfect crystals, vacuum 2022). For example, in the catalysis community, we are not just
environments tend to underperform in predicting real catalyst interested in predictions, but want to develop design rules,
performance under working conditions. The transferability gap controlling descriptors, and horizon-scan testable hypotheses
has many causes, and each may require a different form of about reaction mechanisms. Black-box models can be intractable
mitigation. Computational approaches typically only reproduce with such goals their predictions do not even retain causal
low-index surfaces of perfect crystals and ignore the steps, kinks, information that would help with subsequent finetuning (even if
vacancies, and grain boundaries that dope catalyst faces in practice. the training procedure was feasible). This means that even if a GNN
These defects often are the actual active sites and behave in predicts that a new alloy composition is “active,” the researcher only
fundamentally different ways than ideal terrace sites (Resasco gets to know the prediction itself and no information on what
et al., 2022). Amorphous catalysts lack long-range order, making electronic or geometric reason gave them this prediction. So this
them a far cry from the structure-based representations that limitation endangers the construction of scientific knowledge and
dominate innovative computational modeling of heterogeneous unsettles the argument for the model because of between-study
catalysis. Due to the numerous possible conformations, with only heterogeneity in model suggestion.
limited samples of defective and disordered structures (coming from Interpretable models linear regression, decision trees, symbolic
computationally expensive ab initio molecular dynamics or regression sacrifice prediction for the sake of interpretability. Such
approximated through more specialized sampling methods) it is functional forms will lend themselves relatively readily to
currently possible to make some connection between these two interpretable features driving predictions and their signs,
worlds. Operational conditions introduce further complexity. Static enabling the derivation of design rules (Cao et al., 2025) and
conditions employed in DFT calculations are not able to account for judging mechanistic hypotheses. These types of models are
the effects of electrolyte composition, pH, applied potential, and extremely valuable for exploring new descriptors: symbolic
temperature on the structure and reactivity of catalysis. Recently regression can bootstrap analytic expressions that connect to
included in Surface Pourbaix diagrams (Tables S12–S32) are catalytic activity by submitting physically relevant combinations
observations suggesting that when considered under conditions of elemental properties in a way that adheres to trends over families
of useful reaction, the stable surface termination is often different of materials (Andersen et al., 2019). New efforts are attempting to
from its as-prepared or vacuum annealed form (Birdja et al., 2019) straddle the divide, drawing on a blend of the best of both
Reactivity is mediated by potential-dependent adsorption energies, (Omranpour et al., 2025). Physics-informed neural networks
solvation effects, and electrochemical double-layer structure, but all embed domain knowledge into architectures such that learned
these are cheap to compute yet challenging to fold into ML representations for environments are encouraged to accord with
training pipes. physical intuition while preserving the expressivity of deep learning.
These challenges are amplified by the chasm between lab testing Another direction is concept bottleneck models with interpretable
and industrial execution. For the last 5 years, three-electrode lab cells intermediate representations adsorption energies, d-band centers,
in electrolysis have current densities (10–100 mA cm−2) 2 decades coordination numbers that ensure the prediction has to pass
lower than 1–4 A cm−2 used in commercial electrolyzers. These through human-interpretable structures while also threading that
phenomena result in the formation of a cluster with evolving razor-thin needle of being more flexible than descriptor-based
bubbles, developing local pH gradients, and diffusion-controlled approaches, since ultimately they still boil down to end-to-end
limitations, which creates an operational stage that is considerably learning (Wang S.-H. et al., 2021).
less than idealized testing conditions (Zhang H. et al., 2024). The future, instead, will probably be in hybridization that
Ionomer interactions, catalyst layer morphology, and water shrewdly combines and recombines the advantages of various
management start becoming limiting factors in measuring the approaches. Such CNN zero false negatives if not all detections
performance of membrane electrode assemblies as compared to are selected out of huge compositional spaces by data-driven black-
well-performing catalysts in rotating disk electrode measurements, box high-capacity models. Stepwise interpretable models are then
leading to catastrophic failures. This gap will need to be filled, interrogated, and design rules/mechanisms are extracted that, in
whether it’s through richer and more constrained device-level data turn, can predict alternative avenues of study for deeper
(and multi-scale modelling that outputs bottom-line performance fundamental understanding. Active learning is an iteration
connected at the atomic level) or ML models trained on increasingly between these modes limiting black box exploration using the
expansive datasets. insights learned from interpretable models, and utilizing black
box predictions to push the boundaries of previously-known
6.3 Interpretability vs. performance: moving interpretable heuristics. It did not just accelerate discovery; it
beyond the “black box” fundamentally reimagined how we understand and design
catalytic materials.
The most powerful machine learning models deep neural Figure 14 presents a machine learning-assisted materials
networks, graph convolutional networks, transformers are “black discovery framework employing symbolic regression for the
boxes,” opaque to humans in how they represent information identification of physically interpretable descriptors governing
internally and draw their conclusions. This is the section where oxygen evolution reaction activity in mixed-oxide perovskite
Frontiers in Chemistry 25 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
FIGURE 14
Symbolic regression-guided workflow for descriptor discovery and screening of perovskite electrocatalysts for oxygen evolution reaction (OER). The
workflow illustrates the integration of materials synthesis, structural characterization, feature selection, symbolic regression, and experimental validation
for accelerated discovery of high-performance mixed-oxide perovskite electrocatalysts. The upper pathway demonstrates dataset generation and
descriptor extraction through oxygen evolution activity characterization and symbolic regression-based identification of structure–property
relationships. The derived descriptor is subsequently applied for targeted screening of mixed-oxide ABO3 perovskite compositions across a broad
compositional space. The lower pathway highlights experimental synthesis, structural verification, stability testing, and activity characterization of newly
predicted perovskite candidates, followed by descriptor validation against experimentally measured OER performance (Hu et al., 2023).
electrocatalysts. The workflow integrates experimental synthesis, optimize catalytic materials. New paradigms generative artificial
structural characterization, feature engineering, and symbolic intelligence, foundation models, and multimodal learning have
regression to establish quantitative structure–activity relationships the potential to go beyond current capabilities, enabling
capable of guiding catalyst design and screening. The derived functionality that would have been described as science fiction
descriptor is subsequently utilized to explore large compositional just a few years ago.
spaces of ABO perovskites and identify promising catalyst
3
candidates with enhanced OER performance. Experimental 7.1 Generative AI and foundation models for
validation through synthesis, electrochemical activity evaluation, materials science
and stability testing confirms the predictive capability of the
descriptor-driven screening strategy. Overall, the figure highlights The most foundational innovation on the horizon is what’s
the growing importance of interpretable machine learning known as foundation models large-scale, pretrained neural networks
approaches in accelerating rational catalyst discovery while that learn general representations from rich and diverse datasets, to
maintaining strong physical and chemical insight into be fine-tuned for specific downstream tasks (Chen et al., 2025).
electrocatalytic mechanisms. A visual summary of the three Foundation models with remarkable generative, reasoning, and
major challenges in ML-driven electrocatalysis: (i) data scarcity zero-shot transfer capabilities like GPT and DALL-E have been
and bias (the “small data” problem), (ii) the transferability gap pioneered in natural language processing and computer vision
from idealised models to real devices, and (iii) the trade-off between domains. Translating these architectures to the domain of
model interpretability and predictive performance. The figure also materials science could have a similarly disruptive impact on
lists emerging solutions (FAIR data, physics-informed models, catalyst discovery.
active learning, self-driving labs), serving as a roadmap for This means solving for the underlying physics to build an
future research. effective and generalizable model, because a materials foundation
model trained on millions of crystal structures together with
adsorption calculations and spectroscopic measurements would
7 The next-generation of AI in
learn a representation rich in chemical and physical principles
electrocatalysis
essentially capturing the “language” of materials within its
millions of parameters (Zheng et al., 2025). Such models fine-
The direction of machine learning in electrocatalysis is toward tuned to specifically yield HER activity, stability predictions or
increasingly sophisticated, integrated, and autonomous systems that synthetic pathways would require an order of magnitude fewer
will fundamentally change the way we discover, understand, and task-specific examples than a model trained from scratch, thereby
Frontiers in Chemistry 26 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
directly addressing the challenge of data scarcity. Early
implementations suggest that this approach has great promise:
graph neural networks pretrained on the whole Materials Project
database transfer well to diverse downstream tasks, with state-of-
the-art performance achieved after minimal fine-tuning.
Generative models are more than prediction: they are creation.
Variational autoencoders also learn continuous latent
representations of crystal structures, which not only enables
smooth interpolation between materials in the training data but
can also generate new candidate crystals by sampling points from
this learned manifold (Zhou et al., 2026). Conditional generation
specifying properties of interest and generating structures that are
likely to exhibit them works toward the inverse design paradigm:
defining target performance features and suggesting candidate FIGURE 15
AI ecosystem for closed-loop autonomous electrocatalyst
materials without extensive forward screening. This could mean discovery. (Left/Virtual Domain): Multimodal fusion of text-mined
producing alloy compositions with optimal and ΔGH values, oxide literature databases, crystal connectivity graphs, and deep-learning
interatomic potentials. (Right/Physical Domain): Direct
structures, and/or single-atom catalysts featuring tailored d-band
translation of generative AI candidates into experimental
centers or coordinated environments for electrocatalysis. testing—optimizing morphology, bonding, and gas evolution to turn
Diffusion models that learn to invert a gradual noising process empirical electrocatalysis into a predictive science (Ding R.
et al., 2024).
have demonstrated state-of-the-art performance in generating high-
fidelity and diverse samples across image and molecular domains.
When used on crystal structures, these models could enable
completely new materials under complex constraints candidates into experimental testing (morphology, bonding, gas
thermodynamic stability, synthesizability, target adsorption evolution). The figure illustrates the ultimate vision where
energies and generate structural diversity across all of chemical multimodal data (spectra, microscopy, performance) and
space. Combined with property predictors and active learning, generative models work together to turn empirical electrocatalysis
generative models have the potential to provide access to parts of into a predictive, autonomous science.
chemical space that would be beyond any intuition from traditional Most applications of machine learning to date work in single
approaches, thus dramatically expanding the boundaries of what can data modalities crystal structures from databases, adsorption
be discovered in catalysis. energies from DFT, and performance metrics from experiments.
But human experts combine information across the different
7.2 Multimodal learning: fusing modalities: X-ray diffraction patterns indicate phase purity,
spectroscopy, microscopy, and electron microscopy images show particle size and morphology,
performance data X-ray photoelectron spectra indicate oxidation states and surface
composition, and electrochemical measurements quantify activity
Figure 15 conceptually illustrates the convergence of artificial and stability. Multimodal learning seeks to mirror and hasten this
intelligence, advanced materials science, and sustainable energy integrative reasoning through the melding of disparate data streams
technologies in the future landscape of electrocatalyst discovery. under common models (Tom et al., 2024).
The left half of the figure represents the computational and data- From a technical standpoint, the challenge is about learning
driven foundation of modern catalyst design, highlighting neural joint representations that match content from multiple sources.
networks, digital infrastructures, large-scale data processing, and Early fusion involves concatenating features extracted across
machine learning algorithms capable of learning complex modalities before the final prediction; late fusion aggregates
physicochemical relationships. The central brain motif symbolizes post hoc predictions from modality-specific models; while
the emergence of intelligent autonomous systems that integrate hybrid methods leverage cross-modal attention mechanisms
scientific reasoning, predictive modeling, and adaptive that weight contributor information dynamically based on
optimization. The right half of the figure transitions toward real- context. Multimodal models could predict the long-term
world energy applications, where atomistic materials engineering, stability of electrocatalysts from a combined analysis of initial
molecular interactions, renewable energy integration, and catalytic electrochemical data and electron microscopy images, as well as
reaction pathways are guided through AI-enabled discovery X-ray spectra capturing degradation-relevant features that no
frameworks. Collectively, the figure emphasizes the single measurement reveals.
transformative role of multimodal artificial intelligence, Multimodal learning also allows for potent inverse problems;
autonomous experimentation, and self-driving laboratories in given a transmission electron microscopy image of a synthesized
accelerating the rational development of high-performance catalyst, the trained model could output likely synthesis conditions,
electrocatalysts for sustainable hydrogen production and future performance metrics, or stability in operation (Zhang Z. et al., 2025).
clean-energy technologies. This ability would shift characterization from responding to
A two-domain AI ecosystem: the virtual domain fuses text- completion (which is retrospective) with high-throughput
mined literature, crystal graphs, and deep-learning interatomic synthesis labor (not prospective guiding), to allowing researchers
potentials; the physical domain translates generative-AI who use the same tool set as for experimental design up front, to
Frontiers in Chemistry 27 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
TABLE 8 Key challenges and future directions in ML for electrocatalysis. Source (Grajciar et al., 2018; Resasco et al., 2022; Suvarna et al., 2023; Tom et al., 2024).
Challenge Description Impact Future directions/Solutions
Data Scarcity and Bias Limited experimental data; literature skewed toward Overprediction of success, poor FAIR data principles, NLP-based data extraction,
positive results generalizability transfer learning, active learning
Transferability Gap ML models trained on idealized surfaces fail to predict Poor industrial relevance, device- Multi-scale modeling, operando data integration,
real catalyst performance under operating conditions level failures defect-inclusive datasets
Interpretability vs. High-accuracy models (GNNs, deep networks) are Hinders mechanistic Physics-informed models, concept bottlenecks, hybrid
Performance black-box; interpretable models have lower predictive understanding and design rule (interpretable + black-box) workflows
power derivation
Synthesizability Predicted materials often difficult to synthesize Slow translation from Synthesis-aware ML predictors, autonomous
experimentally computation to lab synthesis platforms, Bayesian optimization of
synthesis parameters
Autonomous Integration of ML, robotics, and high-throughput Limited closed-loop Self-driving laboratories, multimodal learning,
Discovery experimentation remains nascent demonstration at scale foundation models for materials science
interpret why this particular synthesis run worked or failed, and institutional, standardized metadata for open access availability.
possible directions for correcting those conditions. Automation that can be achieved by having human operators do
Then you can compound that even more with natural language, ML-recommended tests based on their intuition will ultimately lead
which will only widen the possibilities. While the scientific literature to a performance plateau because, unless an operator knows when
itself may be able to create a synthetic database of synthesized data, they are doing it wrong, they will not change what they are doing
language models pretrained on this rich stream of details can fill in and get worse over time.
these synthesis recipes, characterization protocols, and performance Although many would find the task intimidating, it’s a
claims across millions of publications that fill structured databases in worthwhile labour that pays off. If successful, it would transform
unstructured text (Schrier et al., 2023). Multimodal models that electrocatalyst development from an empirical art driven by
synergize these text-extracted knowledge bases with experimental personal know-how and luck into a predictive science, in which
and computational data could answer queries currently requiring materials can be rationally designed, autonomously validated and
lengthy curation of the literature- “Which synthesis methods for swiftly deployed. For a field whose progress fuels the viability of
NiFe layered double hydroxides have been reported, and how does sustainable energy technologies, few investments will pay
their OER activity compare?”, What dopants are known to stabilize off this much.
iridium oxide against dissolution in acid?” These models promise to Table 8 represents the synthesis of the five major obstacles
accelerate research in that field by making the cumulative knowledge currently limiting ML adoption in electrocatalysis: data scarcity/
of that field machine-accessible and interpretable, far beyond what bias, transferability gap, interpretability vs. performance,
improved prediction alone would entail. synthesizability of predicted materials, and early-stage
Generative AI, foundation models, and multimodal learning are autonomous discovery. For each challenge, the table describes its
converging to bring fundamentally new scales of materials discovery impact (e.g., overprediction of success, poor industrial relevance,
to the field. Instead of years-long cycles of hypothesis, experiment, hindered mechanistic understanding) and outlines future solutions
and analysis, closed-loop platforms that integrate these capabilities (FAIR data principles, physics-informed models, self-driving labs,
could yield hundreds of discovery iterations a year. Rather than foundation models). This table serves as a roadmap, summarizing
sampling dense compositional neighborhoods around known the challenges discussed in Section 6 and pointing toward the
materials, generative models could suggest candidates that fill the emerging research frontiers covered in Section 7.
chemical universe. Rather than reconstituting principles already
documented in the literature, multimodal models could
8 Emerging AI technologies for
cohesively integrate knowledge scattered across millions of
autonomous catalyst discovery
publications, revealing relationships that no human reader would
be likely to detect.
Achieving this vision will require ongoing investment in data Recent advances in artificial intelligence show that the field of
infrastructure, model development, and automated catalyst discovery is rapidly transforming from modelling to
experimentation. Foundation models will not follow the autonomous research platforms. The transferability of their
trajectory of a single lab, but rather require coordination across representation is expected to be achieved through millions of
the community working together (think Large Hadron Collider or crystal structures and atomistic simulations used to train the
Human Genome Project) to bring compute resources for training foundation models, which is likely to reduce the need for task-
these kinds of models, which go well beyond anything possible by specific training datasets and the multitude of foundation models
any single lab. Multimodal datasets corresponding to synthesis, across different catalyst families. Large Language Models (LLMs) are
characterization, and performance should be curated with starting to support literature mining, hypothesis generation,
Frontiers in Chemistry 28 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
automated synthesis planning, experimental protocol optimization, multimodal architectures holds various prospective paths towards
and scientific knowledge integration. In conjunction with retrieval- inverse design and towards establishing
augmented generation, LLMs can continually update catalyst spectroscopy–microscopy–electrochemical–mechanically coherent
knowledge bases with new literature. Another key technological structure–property–performance relationships. Taken together,
breakthrough is autonomous laboratories that incorporate robotics, these are curbing towards a paradigm that is predictive,
high throughput experimentation, machine learning and Bayesian autonomous, and scalable, advancing the development of
optimization. These automated laboratories synthesize and electrocatalysts towards the technological requirements of
characterize catalysts, update models, and validate them in an green hydrogen.
iterative fashion, without requiring constant human supervision.
Digital twins will combine physics-based simulations with real-time
Author contributions
feedback from experiments to continuously monitor, predict and
optimise the performance of electrolysers as the catalyst ages.
A roadmap to autonomous catalyst discovery can be envisioned VK: Writing – original draft, Writing – review and editing,
in three practical stages. In the near-term (2025–2028), efforts will Investigation, Conceptualization. SM: Writing – review and editing,
continue to focus on building high-quality databases of catalysts, Conceptualization, Writing – original draft. VS: Validation,
enhancing uncertainty quantification, and creating interpretable Investigation, Writing – review and editing. AM: Investigation,
machine learning models. Over the medium term (2028–2032), Writing – review and editing, Validation. SS: Writing – review
active learning, foundation models, multimodal AI, and and editing, Formal Analysis, Validation, Investigation. DM: Formal
autonomous laboratories will play a major role in faster Analysis, Validation, Writing – review and editing, Investigation.
optimization of catalysts along with cost reduction in MA: Formal Analysis, Validation, Writing – review and editing,
experiments. In the future (post-2032), fully integrated closed- Investigation.
loop platforms that integrate the various components of robotics,
machine learning, digital twins, operando characterization, and high
Funding
throughput synthesis are expected to make it possible for self-
driving laboratories that can autonomously discover, validate,
and optimize electrocatalysts with minimal human involvement. The author(s) declared that financial support was not received
for this work and/or its publication.
9 Conclusion
Conflict of interest
Machine learning approaches have revolutionised electrocatalyst
discovery, shifting it away from its trial-and-error origins toward a The author(s) declared that this work was conducted in the
data-driven predictive modelling paradigm. In this review, we have absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be
highlighted the connection between electrochemical principles, construed as a potential conflict of interest.
algorithmic developments, and self-propelled discovery platforms
from a unified evolutionary perspective. The challenge of producing
Generative AI statement
sustainable hydrogen still requires electrocatalysts to possess high
activity, durability, and low cost within narrow design parameters. In
this context, machine learning can be used to efficiently screen The author(s) declared that generative AI was not used in the
materials in high-dimensional materials space at comparatively creation of this manuscript.
low computational cost, thereby enabling the prediction and Any alternative text (alt text) provided alongside figures in this
exploration of materials space. In this context, machine learning article has been generated by Frontiers with the support of artificial
enables efficient virtual screening in the high-dimensional materials intelligence and reasonable efforts have been made to ensure
space at a comparatively low computational cost. Requires curated accuracy, including review by the authors wherever possible. If
data infrastructures and a physically meaningful representation of you identify any issues, please contact us.
structure, and a balance between model explanatory power and
predictive ability. These methods can now be applied to generate
Publisher’s note
catalysts with properties beyond conventional scaling relations and
heuristics, ranging from regression models through graph-based
neural networks. Emerging examples of closed-loop experimental All claims expressed in this article are solely those of the authors
platforms that incorporate machine learning and automated and do not necessarily represent those of their affiliated
synthesis and characterisation are beginning to shorten organizations, or those of the publisher, the editors and the
design–build–test cycles, but data sparsity, bias, and discrepancies reviewers. Any product that may be evaluated in this article, or
between model assumptions and the behaviour of operando catalysts claim that may be made by its manufacturer, is not guaranteed or
under study persist. The realm of emerging generative and endorsed by the publisher.
Frontiers in Chemistry 29 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
References
Andersen, M., Levchenko, S. V., Scheffler, M., and Reuter, K. (2019). Beyond scaling Grajciar, L., Heard, C. J., Bondarenko, A. A., Polynski, M. V., Meeprasert, J., Pidko, E. A.,
relations for the description of catalytic materials. ACS Catal. 9 (4), 2752–2759. doi: 10. et al. (2018). Towards operando computational modeling in heterogeneous catalysis.
1021/acscatal.8b04478 Chem. Soc. Rev. 47 (22), 8307–8348. doi: 10.1039/C8CS00398J
Back, S., Na, J., and Ulissi, Z. W. (2021). Efficient discovery of active, selective, and stable Grim, R. G., Huang, Z., Guarnieri, M. T., Ferrell, J. R., Tao, L., and Schaidle, J. A. (2020).
catalysts for electrochemical H 2 O 2 synthesis through active motif screening. ACS Transforming the carbon economy: challenges and opportunities in the convergence of
Catal. 11 (5), 2483–2491. doi: 10.1021/acscatal.0c05494 low-cost electricity and reductive CO2 utilization. Energy and Environ. Sci. 13 (2),
472–494. doi: 10.1039/C9EE02410G
Batatia, I., Kovács, D. P., Simm, G. N. C., Ortner, C., and Csányi, G. (2023). MACE:
higher order equivariant message passing neural networks for fast and accurate force Guo, J., Haghshenas, Y., Jiao, Y., Kumar, P., Yakobson, B. I., Roy, A., et al. (2024).
fields. Available online at: http://arxiv.org/abs/2206.07697. Rational design of earth-abundant catalysts toward sustainability. Adv. Mater. 36 (42),
2407102. doi: 10.1002/adma.202407102
Birdja, Y. Y., Pérez-Gallent, E., Figueiredo, M. C., Göttle, A. J., Calle-Vallejo, F., and
Koper, M. T. M. (2019). Advances and challenges in understanding the electrocatalytic Hu, Y., Chen, J., Wei, Z., He, Q., and Zhao, Y. (2023). Recent advances and applications
conversion of carbon dioxide to fuels. Nat. Energy 4 (9), 732–745. doi: 10.1038/s41560- of machine learning in electrocatalysis. J. Mater. Inf. 3 (3). doi: 10.20517/jmi.2023.23
019-0450-y
Hu, C., Hu, Y., Zhang, B., Zhang, H., Bao, X., Zhang, J., et al. (2024). Advanced catalyst
Bowker, M., DeBeer, S., Dummer, N. F., Hutchings, G. J., Scheffler, M., Schüth, F., et al. design strategies and in-situ characterization techniques for enhancing electrocatalytic
(2022). Advancing critical chemical processes for a sustainable future: challenges for industry activity and stability of oxygen evolution reaction. Electrochem. Energy Rev. 7 (1), 19.
and the Max planck–cardiff centre on the fundamentals of heterogeneous catalysis doi: 10.1007/s41918-024-00219-8
(FUNCAT). Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 61 (50), e202209016. doi: 10.1002/anie.202209016
Jain, A., Ong, S. P., Hautier, G., Chen, W., Richards, W. D., Dacek, S., et al. (2013). The
Burger, B., Maffettone, P. M., Gusev, V. V., Aitchison, C. M., Bai, Y., Wang, X., et al. Materials Project: A materials genome approach to accelerating materials innovation.
(2020). A mobile robotic chemist. Nature 583 (7815), 237–241. doi: 10.1038/s41586-020- APL Materials 1 (1), 011002. doi: 10.1063/1.4812323
2442-2
Jiang, X., Chuah, C. Y., Goh, K., and Wang, R. (2021). A facile direct spray-coating of
Bushion, J., Krishnan, N. K., Kuo, C., Thambusamy, S., Govindasamy, M., and Eldesoky, pebax® 1657: towards large-scale thin-film composite membranes for efficient CO2/
G. E. (2026). Delaminated two-dimensional Ti3C2Tx Mxene engineered gadolinium N2 separation. J. Membr. Sci. 638, 119708. doi: 10.1016/j.memsci.2021.119708
nitride nanostructures as an efficient bifunctional electrocatalyst for hydrogen and
Jiang, C., He, H., Guo, H., Zhang, X., Han, Q., Weng, Y., et al. (2024). Transfer learning
oxygen evolution reactions. J. Power Sources 688, 240521. doi: 10.1016/j.jpowsour.2026.
guided discovery of efficient perovskite oxide for alkaline water oxidation. Nat.
240521
Commun. 15 (1), 6301. doi: 10.1038/s41467-024-50605-5
Cao, G., Yang, S., Ren, J.-C., and Liu, W. (2025). Electronic descriptors for designing
Jin, Z., Gu, D., Li, P., Ye, G., Zhu, H., Wei, K., et al. (2025). Artificial intelligence-driven
high-entropy alloy electrocatalysts by leveraging local chemical environments. Nat.
catalyst design for electrocatalytic hydrogen production: paradigm innovation and
Commun. 16 (1), 1251. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-56421-9
challenges in material discovery. Sustain. Chem. Energy Mater. 2, 100010. doi: 10.
Chanussot, L., Das, A., Goyal, S., Lavril, T., Shuaibi, M., Riviere, M., et al. (2021). Open 1016/j.scenem.2025.100010
catalyst 2020 (OC20) dataset and community challenges. ACS Catal. 11 (10), 6059–6072.
Keith, J. A., Vassilev-Galindo, V., Cheng, B., Chmiela, S., Gastegger, M., Müller, K.-R.,
doi: 10.1021/acscatal.0c04525
et al. (2021). Combining machine learning and computational chemistry for predictive
Chen, D., Shang, C., and Liu, Z.-P. (2023). Machine-learning atomic simulation for insights into chemical systems. Chem. Rev. 121 (16), 9816–9872. doi: 10.1021/acs.
heterogeneous catalysis. Npj Comput. Mater. 9 (1), 2. doi: 10.1038/s41524-022-00959-5 chemrev.1c00107
Chen, J., Huang, X., Hua, C., He, Y., and Schwaller, P. (2025). A multi-modal Kibsgaard, J., and Chorkendorff, I. (2019). Considerations for the scaling-up of water
transformer for predicting global minimum adsorption energy. Nat. Commun. 16 splitting catalysts. Nat. Energy 4 (6), 430–433. doi: 10.1038/s41560-019-0407-1
(1), 3232. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-58499-7
Kolluru, A., Shuaibi, M., Palizhati, A., Shoghi, N., Das, A., Wood, B., et al. (2022). Open
Correa-Baena, J.-P., Hippalgaonkar, K., van Duren, J., Jaffer, S., Chandrasekhar, V. R., challenges in developing generalizable large-scale machine-learning models for catalyst
Stevanovic, V., et al. (2018). Accelerating materials development via automation, discovery. ACS Catal. 12 (14), 8572–8581. doi: 10.1021/acscatal.2c02291
machine learning, and high-performance computing. Joule 2 (8), 1410–1420. doi: 10.
Lan, J., Palizhati, A., Shuaibi, M., Wood, B. M., Wander, B., Das, A., et al. (2023).
1016/j.joule.2018.05.009
AdsorbML: a leap in efficiency for adsorption energy calculations using generalizable
Deshmukh, G., Wichrowski, N. J., Evangelou, N., Ghanekar, P. G., Deshpande, S., machine learning potentials. Npj Comput. Mater. 9 (1), 172. doi: 10.1038/s41524-023-
Kevrekidis, I. G., et al. (2024). Active learning of ternary alloy structures and energies. 01121-5
Npj Comput. Mater. 10 (1), 116. doi: 10.1038/s41524-024-01256-z
Li, J. (2022). Oxygen evolution reaction in energy conversion and storage: design
Din, M. A. U., Krishnan, M. R., and Alsharaeh, E. H. (2025). Design strategies for cost- strategies under and beyond the energy scaling relationship. Nano-Micro Lett. 14 (1),
effective high-performance electrocatalysts in seawater electrolysis to produce hydrogen. 112. doi: 10.1007/s40820-022-00857-x
J. Energy Chem. 102, 497–515. doi: 10.1016/j.jechem.2024.10.047
Li, J., Wu, N., Zhang, J., Wu, H.-H., Pan, K., Wang, Y., et al. (2023). Machine learning-
Ding, L., Li, K., Wang, W., Xie, Z., Yu, S., Yu, H., et al. (2024). Amorphous iridium assisted low-dimensional electrocatalysts design for hydrogen evolution reaction. Nano-
oxide-integrated anode electrodes with ultrahigh material utilization for hydrogen Micro Lett. 15 (1), 227. doi: 10.1007/s40820-023-01192-5
production at industrial Current densities. Nano-Micro Lett. 16 (1), 203. doi: 10.
Liu, H., Wang, Y., Fan, W., Liu, X., Li, Y., Jain, S., et al. (2023). Trustworthy AI: a
1007/s40820-024-01411-7
computational perspective. ACM Trans. Intelligent Syst. Technol. 14 (1), 1–59. doi: 10.
Ding, R., Chen, J., Chen, Y., Liu, J., Bando, Y., and Wang, X. (2024). Unlocking the 1145/3546872
potential: machine learning applications in electrocatalyst design for electrochemical
Luo, Y., Zhang, Z., Chhowalla, M., and Liu, B. (2022). Recent advances in design of
hydrogen energy transformation. Chem. Soc. Rev. 53 (23), 11390–11461. doi: 10.1039/
electrocatalysts for high-current-density water splitting. Adv. Mater. 34 (16), 2108133.
D4CS00844H
doi: 10.1002/adma.202108133
Escayola, S., Bahri-Laleh, N., and Poater, A. (2024). % V Bur index and steric maps: from Motagamwala, A. H., Ball, M. R., and Dumesic, J. A. (2018). Microkinetic analysis and
predictive catalysis to machine learning. Chem. Soc. Rev. 53 (2), 853–882. doi: 10.1039/
scaling relations for catalyst design. Annu. Rev. Chem. Biomol. Eng. 9 (1), 413–450. doi:
D3CS00725A
10.1146/annurev-chembioeng-060817-084103
Gao, X., Chen, Y., Wang, Y., Zhao, L., Zhao, X., Du, J., et al. (2024). Next-generation
Mou, L., Han, T., Smith, P. E. S., Sharman, E., and Jiang, J. (2023). Machine learning
green hydrogen: progress and perspective from electricity, catalyst to electrolyte in
descriptors for data-driven catalysis Study. Adv. Sci. 10 (22), 2301020. doi: 10.1002/advs.
electrocatalytic water splitting. Nano-Micro Lett. 16 (1), 237. doi: 10.1007/s40820-024-
202301020
01424-2
Mou, T., Pillai, H. S., Wang, S., Wan, M., Han, X., Schweitzer, N. M., et al. (2023).
Gasteiger, J., Giri, S., Margraf, J. T., and Günnemann, S. (2022). Fast and uncertainty-
Bridging the complexity gap in computational heterogeneous catalysis with machine
aware directional message passing for non-equilibrium molecules. Available online at:
learning. Nat. Catal. 6 (2), 122–136. doi: 10.1038/s41929-023-00911-w
http://arxiv.org/abs/2011.14115.
Musaelian, A., Batzner, S., Johansson, A., Sun, L., Owen, C. J., Kornbluth, M., et al.
Gasteiger, J., Becker, F., and Günnemann, S. (2024). GemNet: universal directional
(2022). Learning local equivariant representations for large-scale atomistic dynamics.
graph neural networks for molecules. Available online at: http://arxiv.org/abs/2106.
Available online at: http://arxiv.org/abs/2204.05249.
08903.
Oh, S.-H. V., Yoo, S.-H., and Jang, W. (2024). Small dataset machine-learning approach
Ghanekar, P. G., Deshpande, S., and Greeley, J. (2022). Adsorbate chemical
for efficient design space exploration: engineering ZnTe-based high-entropy alloys for
environment-based machine learning framework for heterogeneous catalysis. Nat.
water splitting. Npj Comput. Mater. 10 (1), 166. doi: 10.1038/s41524-024-01341-3
Commun. 13 (1), 5788. doi: 10.1038/s41467-022-33256-2
Omranpour, A., Elsner, J., Lausch, K. N., and Behler, J. (2025). Machine learning
Govindarajan, N., Koper, M. T. M., Meijer, E. J., and Calle-Vallejo, F. (2019). Outlining
potentials for heterogeneous catalysis. ACS Catal. 15 (3), 1616–1634. doi: 10.1021/
the scaling-based and scaling-free optimization of electrocatalysts. ACS Catal. 9 (5),
acscatal.4c06717
4218–4225. doi: 10.1021/acscatal.9b00532
Frontiers in Chemistry 30 frontiersin.org

Kudapa et al. 10.3389/fchem.2026.1894425
Peng, J., Schwalbe-Koda, D., Akkiraju, K., Xie, T., Giordano, L., Yu, Y., et al. (2022). inform future research. Energy and Environ. Sci. 15 (9), 3775–3794. doi: 10.1039/
Human- and machine-centred designs of molecules and materials for sustainability and D2EE01333A
decarbonization. Nat. Rev. Mater. 7 (12), 991–1009. doi: 10.1038/s41578-022-00466-5
Suvarna, M., Vaucher, A. C., Mitchell, S., Laino, T., and Pérez-Ramírez, J. (2023).
Pham, C. V., Escalera-López, D., Mayrhofer, K., Cherevko, S., and Thiele, S. (2021). Language models and protocol standardization guidelines for accelerating synthesis
Essentials of high performance water electrolyzers – from catalyst layer materials to planning in heterogeneous catalysis. Nat. Commun. 14 (1), 7964. doi: 10.1038/s41467-
electrode engineering. Adv. Energy Mater. 11 (44), 2101998. doi: 10.1002/aenm. 023-43836-5
202101998
Szymanski, N. J., Rendy, B., Fei, Y., Kumar, R. E., He, T., Milsted, D., et al. (2023). An
Qian, X., Yoon, B.-J., Arróyave, R., Qian, X., and Dougherty, E. R. (2023). Knowledge- autonomous laboratory for the accelerated synthesis of inorganic materials. Nature 624
driven learning, optimization, and experimental design under uncertainty for materials (7990), 86–91. doi: 10.1038/s41586-023-06734-w
discovery. Patterns 4 (11), 100863. doi: 10.1016/j.patter.2023.100863
Tom, G., Schmid, S. P., Baird, S. G., Cao, Y., Darvish, K., Hao, H., et al. (2024). Self-
Qian, F., Cao, D., Chen, S., Yuan, Y., Chen, K., Chimtali, P. J., et al. (2025). High-entropy Driving laboratories for chemistry and materials science. Chem. Rev. 124 (16),
RuO2 catalyst with dual-site oxide path for durable acidic oxygen evolution reaction. 9633–9732. doi: 10.1021/acs.chemrev.4c00055
Nat. Commun. 16 (1), 6894. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-61763-5
Tong, Y., Wang, L., Hou, F., Dou, S. X., and Liang, J. (2022). Electrocatalytic oxygen
Quaino, P., Juarez, F., Santos, E., and Schmickler, W. (2014). Volcano plots in hydrogen reduction to produce hydrogen peroxide: rational design from single-atom catalysts to
electrocatalysis – uses and abuses. Beilstein J. Nanotechnol. 5, 846–854. doi: 10.3762/ devices. Electrochem. Energy Rev. 5 (3), 7. doi: 10.1007/s41918-022-00163-5
bjnano.5.96
Tran, R., Lan, J., Shuaibi, M., Wood, B. M., Goyal, S., Das, A., et al. (2023). The open
Reiser, P., Neubert, M., Eberhard, A., Torresi, L., Zhou, C., Shao, C., et al. (2022). Graph catalyst 2022 (OC22) dataset and challenges for oxide electrocatalysts. ACS Catal. 13 (5),
neural networks for materials science and chemistry. Commun. Mater. 3 (1), 93. doi: 10. 3066–3084. doi: 10.1021/acscatal.2c05426
1038/s43246-022-00315-6
Wang, S., Lu, A., and Zhong, C.-J. (2021). Hydrogen production from water electrolysis:
Resasco, J., Abild-Pedersen, F., Hahn, C., Bao, Z., Koper, M. T. M., and Jaramillo, T. F. role of catalysts. Nano Converg. 8 (1), 4. doi: 10.1186/s40580-021-00254-x
(2022). Enhancing the connection between computation and experiments in
Wang, S.-H., Pillai, H. S., Wang, S., Achenie, L. E. K., and Xin, H. (2021). Infusing theory
electrocatalysis. Nat. Catal. 5 (5), 374–381. doi: 10.1038/s41929-022-00789-0
into deep learning for interpretable reactivity prediction. Nat. Commun. 12 (1), 5288.
Rodríguez-Martínez, X., Pascual-San-José, E., and Campoy-Quiles, M. (2021). doi: 10.1038/s41467-021-25639-8
Accelerating organic solar cell material’s discovery: high-throughput screening and
Wang, T., Cao, X., and Jiao, L. (2022). PEM water electrolysis for hydrogen production:
big data. Energy and Environ. Sci. 14 (6), 3301–3322. doi: 10.1039/D1EE00559F
fundamentals, advances, and prospects. Carbon Neutrality 1 (1), 21. doi: 10.1007/
Rosen, A. S., Iyer, S. M., Ray, D., Yao, Z., Aspuru-Guzik, A., Gagliard, L., et al. (2021). s43979-022-00022-8
Machine learning the quantum-chemical properties of metal–organic frameworks for
Wang, W., Jiang, X., Tian, S., Liu, P., Lookman, T., Su, Y., et al. (2023). Alloy synthesis
accelerated materials discovery. Matter 4 (5), 1578–1597. doi: 10.1016/j.matt.2021.
and processing by semi-supervised text mining. Npj Comput. Mater. 9 (1), 183. doi: 10.
02.015
1038/s41524-023-01138-w
Saidi, W. A. (2022). Emergence of local scaling relations in adsorption energies on high-
Wang, C., Wang, B., Wang, C., Li, A., Chang, Z., and Wang, R. (2025). A machine
entropy alloys. Npj Comput. Mater. 8 (1), 86. doi: 10.1038/s41524-022-00766-y
learning model with minimize feature parameters for multi-type hydrogen evolution
Salami, R., Liu, T., Han, X., and Zheng, Y. (2025). Machine learning application in catalyst prediction. Npj Comput. Mater. 11 (1), 111. doi: 10.1038/s41524-025-01607-4
thermal CO2 hydrogenation: catalyst design, process optimization, and mechanism
Wang, J., Liu, Y., Yang, G., Jiao, Y., Dong, Y., Tian, C., et al. (2025). MXene-Assisted
insights. Adv. Powder Mater. 4 (6), 100333. doi: 10.1016/j.apmate.2025.100333
NiFe sulfides for high-performance anion exchange membrane seawater electrolysis.
Schrier, J., Norquist, A. J., Buonassisi, T., and Brgoch, J. (2023). In pursuit of the Nat. Commun. 16 (1), 1319. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-56639-7
exceptional: research directions for machine learning in chemical and materials science.
Wang, X., Pi, W., Hu, S., Bao, H., Yao, N., and Luo, W. (2025). Boosting oxygen
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 145 (40), 21699–21716. doi: 10.1021/jacs.3c04783
evolution reaction performance on NiFe-Based catalysts through d-Orbital
Schütt, K. T., Sauceda, H. E., Kindermans, P.-J., Tkatchenko, A., and Müller, K.-R. hybridization. Nano-Micro Lett. 17 (1), 11. doi: 10.1007/s40820-024-01528-9
(2018). SchNet – a deep learning architecture for molecules and materials. J. Chem. Phys.
Wu, L., Xu, Y., Wang, Q., Zou, X., Pan, Z., Leung, M. K. H., et al. (2025). Direct seawater
148 (24), 241722. doi: 10.1063/1.5019779
electrolysis for green hydrogen production: electrode designs, cell configurations, and
Sead, F. F., Reddy, M. S., Sahu, B. N., Sundharam, S., Kumar, S., Pramanik, A., et al. system integrations. Energy and Environ. Sci. 18 (10), 4596–4624. doi: 10.1039/
(2026). Dual-function MOF@covalent triazine framework – au hybrid for visible-light- D5EE01093D
driven photocatalytic hydrogen evolution. J. Environ. Chem. Eng. 14 (3), 122992. doi: 10.
Xu, S., Chen, Z., Qin, M., Cai, B., Li, W., Zhu, R., et al. (2024). Developing new
1016/j.jece.2026.122992
electrocatalysts for oxygen evolution reaction via high throughput experiments and
Seh, Z. W., Kibsgaard, J., Dickens, C. F., Chorkendorff, I., Nørskov, J. K., and Jaramillo, artificial intelligence. Npj Comput. Mater. 10 (1), 194. doi: 10.1038/s41524-024-01386-4
T. F. (2017). Combining theory and experiment in electrocatalysis: insights into
Xu, W., Diesen, E., He, T., Reuter, K., and Margraf, J. T. (2024). Discovering high
materials design. Science 355 (6321), eaad4998. doi: 10.1126/science.aad4998
entropy alloy electrocatalysts in vast composition spaces with multiobjective
Slautin, B. N., Liu, Y., Funakubo, H., Vasudevan, R. K., Ziatdinov, M., and Kalinin, S. V. optimization. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 146 (11), 7698–7707. doi: 10.1021/jacs.3c14486
(2024). Bayesian conavigation: dynamic designing of the material digital twins via active
Zhang, H., Chen, L., Dong, F., Lu, Z., Lv, E., Dong, X., et al. (2024). Dynamic
learning. ACS Nano 18 (36), 24898–24908. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.4c05368
transformation of active sites in energy and environmental catalysis. Energy and
Sokolov, M., and Exner, K. S. (2024). Is the *O vs. *OH scaling relation intercept more Environ. Sci. 17 (18), 6435–6481. doi: 10.1039/D4EE02365J
relevant than the *OOH vs. *OH intercept to capture trends in the oxygen evolution
Zhang, Z., Ren, Z., Hsu, C.-W., Chen, W., Hong, Z.-W., Lee, C.-F., et al. (2025). A
reaction? Chem. Catal. 4 (7), 101039. doi: 10.1016/j.checat.2024.101039
multimodal robotic platform for multi-element electrocatalyst discovery. Nature 647
Srinivasan, S. K., Jayaraman, S., Sekar, B. K., Rajendran, A. K., Jayabal, R., and (8089), 390–396. doi: 10.1038/s41586-025-09640-5
Prabhakar, P. (2026). Integrated monitoring and lifecycle assessment of green
Zheng, P., Han, Z., Su, B.-L., and Xu, G. (2025). Catal-GPT: AI-driven directed efficient
hydrogen, ammonia, and synthetic fuels: advancing environmental sustainability and
design framework for catalysts. Natl. Sci. Rev. 12 (9), nwaf299. doi: 10.1093/nsr/nwaf299
carbon traceability in the clean energy transition. Environ. Prog. and Sustain. Energy 45
(2), e70328. doi: 10.1002/ep.70328 Zhou, D., Yang, R., Jia, Z., Cai, Y., Zhao, L., Guo, L., et al. (2026). A practical inverse
design approach for high-entropy catalysts using generative AI. Nat. Synth. 5, 730–739.
Stevanović, V., Lany, S., Zhang, X., and Zunger, A. (2012). Correcting density functional
doi: 10.1038/s44160-025-00983-5
theory for accurate predictions of compound enthalpies of formation: Fitted elemental-
phase reference energies. Physical Review 85, 11510. doi: 10.1103/PhysRevB.85.115104 Zhu, Q., Huang, Y., Zhou, D., Zhao, L., Guo, L., Yang, R., et al. (2023). Automated
synthesis of oxygen-producing catalysts from Martian meteorites by a robotic AI
Stevens, M. B., Anand, M., Kreider, M. E., Price, E. K., Zeledón, J. Z., Wang, L., et al.
chemist. Nat. Synth. 3 (3), 319–328. doi: 10.1038/s44160-023-00424-1
(2022). New challenges in oxygen reduction catalysis: a consortium retrospective to
Frontiers in Chemistry 31 frontiersin.org

